---
doctype: UserGuide
part: "3D processing and analysis"
chapter: 3D_Image_processing
section: Calculating_statistics_on_a_point_cloud_or_depth_map
module_tag: 3dim
product: Aurora-Imaging-Library-user-guide
version: 1100
path: "UserGuide / 3D processing and analysis / 3D_Image_processing / Calculating statistics on a point cloud or depth map"
---

# Calculating statistics on a point cloud, depth map, or 3D geometry

You can extract a variety of statistical information from a point cloud, depth map, or 3D geometry. Using [`M3dimStat`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimStat.md), you can calculate:

- The [bounding box](S13_Calculating_statistics_on_a_point_cloud_or_depth_map.md) (with or without outlier points).
- The [centroid](S13_Calculating_statistics_on_a_point_cloud_or_depth_map.md) of a point cloud, depth map, or 3D geometry.
- [Distances](S13_Calculating_statistics_on_a_point_cloud_or_depth_map.md) between 3D points and their neighbors.
- [Surface variation](S13_Calculating_statistics_on_a_point_cloud_or_depth_map.md).
- [Surface area](S13_Calculating_statistics_on_a_point_cloud_or_depth_map.md).
- [Number of points](S13_Calculating_statistics_on_a_point_cloud_or_depth_map.md).
- [Principle component analysis (PCA) statistics](S13_Calculating_statistics_on_a_point_cloud_or_depth_map.md), including PCA statistics on a point cloud's unit normal vectors.
- [Moments](S13_Calculating_statistics_on_a_point_cloud_or_depth_map.md).

Note that if you are extracting statistical information from a 3D geometry, only bounding box and centroid calculations are supported by [`M3dimStat`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimStat.md).

If you require statistics from distance measurements between a point cloud or depth map and a reference object, use [`M3dmetStat`](../../Reference/3dmet/M3dmetStat.md). See [Calculating distance measurements and statistics](../C39_3D_Metrology/S05_Calculate_statistics.md) for more information.

Except when otherwise mentioned, everything in this section that refers to point clouds also includes depth maps.

The image below shows a point cloud with six spheres, each surrounded by a bounding box. [`M3dimStat`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimStat.md) is used to calculate the bounding box of each sphere.

*[Image: 3dim_bounding_box.png]*

## Steps to performing a statistics calculation

The following steps provide a basic methodology for calculating statistics using the 3D Image Processing module.

1. Optionally, allocate a custom statistics 3D image processing context using [`M3dimAlloc`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimAlloc.md) with [`M_STATISTICS_CONTEXT`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimAlloc.md). With a custom context, you can enable and calculate multiple statistics.
   > **Note:** Note that if you want to evaluate a single statistics calculation, you can call [`M3dimStat`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimStat.md) with a predefined statistics 3D image processing context, without having to allocate a statistics 3D image processing context beforehand. [`M3dimStat`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimStat.md) will calculate the required statistics using default settings.
2. Allocate a statistics 3D image processing result buffer using [`M3dimAllocResult`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimAllocResult.md) with [`M_STATISTICS_RESULT`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimAllocResult.md).
3. If required, use [`M3dimControl`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md) to enable the required statistics calculation (for example, to enable bounding box statistics, set [`M_BOUNDING_BOX`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md) to [`M_ENABLE`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md)). This step is necessary if you are using a custom statistics 3D image processing context.
4. Call [`M3dimStat`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimStat.md) with an appropriate statistics context (custom or predefined), a statistics result buffer or a 3D geometry object, and the point cloud container, depth map container, depth map image buffer, or 3D geometry object for which to calculate the required statistics.
5. Retrieve results using [`M3dimGetResult`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md) and [`M3dimCopyResult`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimCopyResult.md).

## Determining the bounding box

The bounding box of a point cloud or 3D geometry is the smallest axis-aligned box that contains, by default, either all the valid points in the point cloud or the entire 3D geometry object, respectively. To calculate the bounding box, specify the [`M_STAT_CONTEXT_BOUNDING_BOX`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimStat.md) predefined context, or use a custom statistics 3D image processing context with [`M_BOUNDING_BOX`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md) enabled. You can compute the bounding box's dimensions, as well as its minimum and maximum coordinate points. You can also calculate a semi-oriented bounding box, which is, by default, axis-aligned in Z but not in X and Y. To do so, specify the [`M_STAT_CONTEXT_SEMI_ORIENTED_BOX`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimStat.md) predefined context or use a custom statistics 3D image processing context with [`M_BOUNDING_BOX`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md) enabled and [`M_SEMI_ORIENTED`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md) specified. You can change the axis in which the semi-oriented bounding box is aligned, using [`M_BOX_SEMI_ORIENTED_ROTATION_AXIS`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md).

The default algorithm ([`M3dimControl`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md) with [`M_BOUNDING_BOX_ALGORITHM`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md) set to[`M_ALL_POINTS`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md)) calculates a bounding box that includes all valid points. You can refine your bounding box, typically to limit outliers, using [`M3dimControl`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md) with [`M_BOUNDING_BOX_ALGORITHM`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md) set to [`M_ROBUST`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md). In this case, you must specify the outlier ratio with [`M_BOUNDING_BOX_OUTLIER_RATIO_X`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md), [`M_BOUNDING_BOX_OUTLIER_RATIO_Y`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md), and [`M_BOUNDING_BOX_OUTLIER_RATIO_Z`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md). The outlier ratio is the fraction of the total number of points whose coordinates place the points in outlier positions, and therefore outside of the bounding box. For example, if you set all [`M_BOUNDING_BOX_OUTLIER_RATIO_...`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md) control types to 0.01, the calculation rejects the furthest 1 percent of points.

You can directly write the bounding box to a 3D geometry object if you have allocated one. To do so, specify the identifier of the 3D geometry object when calling [`M3dimStat`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimStat.md) instead of specifying the identifier of a statistics 3D image processing result buffer. Writing the bounding box to a 3D geometry object will establish it as a 3D box geometry object. If you passed a statistics 3D image processing result buffer to [`M3dimStat`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimStat.md), you can copy the bounding box from the result buffer to a 3D geometry object using [`M3dimCopyResult`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimCopyResult.md) with [`M_BOUNDING_BOX`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimCopyResult.md), which will establish it as a 3D box geometry object. You can also copy the coordinates of the center of the bounding box into a 3D geometry object, establishing it as a 3D point geometry object. Whereas, you can use [`M3dimGetResult`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md) to retrieve the bounding box's dimensions ([`M_SIZE_X`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md), [`M_SIZE_Y`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md), and [`M_SIZE_Z`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md)), the minimum/maximum coordinates of the bounding box ([`M_MIN_...`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md) or [`M_MAX_...`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md)), and the coordinates of the center of the bounding box ([`M_BOX_CENTER_X`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md), [`M_BOX_CENTER_Y`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md), and [`M_BOX_CENTER_Z`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md)).

If you want to scale your entire point cloud to dimensions at or near one unit, refer to [Transforming points using a transformation matrix](S03_Manipulating_a_point_cloud_or_3D_geometry_object.md). Alternatively, if you have previously allocated a transformation matrix object, using [`M3dgeoAlloc`](../../Reference/3dgeo/M3dgeoAlloc.md) with [`M_TRANSFORMATION_MATRIX`](../../Reference/3dgeo/M3dgeoAlloc.md), you can copy, into the transformation matrix, the bounding box statistics results that will transform the bounding box into a unit box. To do so, use [`M3dimCopyResult`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimCopyResult.md) with [`M_NORMALIZATION_MATRIX`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimCopyResult.md). The unit box's maximum length is 1, except in the case of a signed unit box, whose maximum length is 2. You can set whether the normalization matrix should transform the point cloud to fit a signed or unsigned unit box, using [`M3dimControl`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md) with [`M_NORMALIZATION_MODE`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md). You can also use [`M_NORMALIZATION_SCALE`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md) to set how to apply the scale values when transforming the point cloud to fit a unit box. Note that this copy operation is not available for a semi-oriented bounding box.

Scaling the bounding box to a unit box provides numeric stability. For example, if your point cloud is very large and you need to perform calculations using the dimensions of the point cloud's bounding box, it can be useful to transform it into a unit box, such that all dimensions are of order unity. You can also be certain that all points are included in the scaling, since by definition the bounding box encloses all valid points. Further, if you need to discretize your data, having well-defined boundaries on all three axes of the bounding box is useful. For example, it can be easier to perform a binning operation on the points in the bounding box if the dimensions of the box are all integer values.

## Determining the centroid

The centroid of a point cloud or 3D geometry is its center of mass. To calculate the centroid, specify the [`M_STAT_CONTEXT_CENTROID`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimStat.md) predefined context or use a custom statistics 3D image processing context with [`M_CENTROID`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md) enabled. Centroid statistics include the X-, Y-, and Z-coordinates of the point cloud or 3D geometry's centroid. To retrieve these results, use [`M3dimGetResult`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md) with [`M_CENTROID_X`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md), [`M_CENTROID_Y`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md), and [`M_CENTROID_Z`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md).

You can directly write the centroid to a 3D geometry object if you have allocated one. To do so, specify the identifier of the 3D geometry object when calling [`M3dimStat`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimStat.md) instead of specifying the identifier of a statistics 3D image processing result buffer. Writing the centroid to a 3D geometry object will establish it as a 3D point geometry object. If you passed a statistics 3D image processing result buffer to [`M3dimStat`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimStat.md), you can copy the centroid from the result buffer to a 3D geometry object, using [`M3dimCopyResult`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimCopyResult.md) with [`M_CENTROID`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimCopyResult.md). Copying the centroid to a 3D geometry object will also establish it as a 3D geometry point object.

## Determining distances between points

To compute distance-to-nearest-neighbor statistics, specify the [`M_STAT_CONTEXT_DISTANCE_TO_NEAREST_NEIGHBOR`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimStat.md) predefined context or use a custom statistics 3D image processing context with [`M_DISTANCE_TO_NEAREST_NEIGHBOR`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md) enabled. When using a custom context, you must also enable the required statistical calculation(s) ([`M_CALCULATE_...`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md)). You can calculate the average distance, the median distance, the maximum distance, and the minimum distance of points to their nearest neighbor. You can also calculate the standard deviation and the robust standard deviation of these distances. Choose the robust calculation to minimize the influence of outlier points (for example, due to noise), since such outliers can skew data in a non-robust standard deviation calculation. To retrieve distance-to-nearest-neighbor statistics results, use [`M3dimGetResult`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md) with [`M_DISTANCE_TO_NEAREST_NEIGHBOR_...`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md).

## Determining surface variation

A point cloud's surface variation is a measure of its noise level. When calculating surface variation statistics, Aurora Imaging Library fits a local plane to points in a neighborhood and measures the perpendicular distance of the point in question to the plane. Greater distances mean a noisier point cloud. To compute surface variation statistics, use a custom statistics 3D image processing context with [`M_SURFACE_VARIATION`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md) enabled. You must also enable the required surface variation calculation(s) ([`M_CALCULATE_...`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md)). You can calculate the average distance, the median distance, the maximum distance, and the minimum distance to the local plane, for all points in the point cloud. You can also calculate the standard deviation and the robust standard deviation of these distances. Choose the robust calculation to minimize the influence of outlier points (for example, due to noise), since such outliers can skew data in a non-robust standard deviation calculation. To retrieve surface variation statistics results, use [`M3dimGetResult`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md) with [`M_SURFACE_VARIATION_...`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md).

## Determining surface area

The surface area is the sum of the area of all the mesh triangles in the container. To compute surface area statistics, specify the [`M_STAT_CONTEXT_SURFACE_AREA`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimStat.md) predefined context or use a custom statistics 3D image processing context with [`M_SURFACE_AREA`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md) enabled. To retrieve these results, use [`M3dimGetResult`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md) with [`M_SURFACE_AREA`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md). This statistic is only available for 3D-processable point cloud and depth map containers that have an [`M_COMPONENT_MESH_AIL`](../../Reference/buf/MbufAllocComponent.md) component.

## Determining numbers of points

To compute number-of-points statistics, specify the [`M_STAT_CONTEXT_NUMBER_OF_POINTS`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimStat.md) predefined context or use a custom statistics 3D image processing context with [`M_NUMBER_OF_POINTS`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md) enabled. You can calculate the total number of points, the number of points that are missing data (invalid points), and the number of valid points. Note that the sum of valid and invalid points equals the total number of points. To retrieve these results, use [`M3dimGetResult`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md) with [`M_NUMBER_OF_POINTS_TOTAL`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md), [`M_NUMBER_OF_POINTS_MISSING_DATA`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md), or [`M_NUMBER_OF_POINTS_VALID`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md).

## Determining principal component analysis (PCA) statistics

The principal components of a dataset (such as 3D points distributed in a point cloud) are the directions along which there is the most variance, or spread, in the data. The first principal component (or principal axis) represents the maximum variance; the second principal component represents the second-most variance, perpendicular to the first; and the third principal component is perpendicular to the first two components.

*[Image: 3dim_PrincipalAxes.png]*

To compute principal component analysis (PCA) statistics, specify the [`M_STAT_CONTEXT_PCA`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimStat.md) predefined context or use a custom statistics 3D image processing context with [`M_PCA`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md) enabled. You can also compute PCA statistics on the point cloud's unit normal vectors. To do so, specify the [`M_STAT_CONTEXT_PCA_NORMALS`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimStat.md) predefined context or use a custom context with [`M_PCA`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md) enabled, [`M_PCA_MODE`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md) set to [`M_ORDINARY`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md), and[`M_COMPONENT_OF_INTEREST`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md) set to [`M_COMPONENT_NORMALS_AIL`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md).

To retrieve these results, use [`M3dimGetResult`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md) and specify the required result type. You can retrieve the components of the normalized vectors along the computed principal axes ([`M_PRINCIPAL_AXIS_...`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md)), the related eigenvalues ([`M_EIGENVALUE_...`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md)), as well as corresponding moments results (for example, [`M_COVARIANCE_MATRIX`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md)). Additionally, you can retrieve numbers-of-points statistics for the PCA calculations (for instance, [`M_NUMBER_OF_POINTS_VALID`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md)). Other available results include the component for which the statistics were calculated ([`M_COMPONENT_OF_INTEREST`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md)) and whether the results were measured relative to the object's centroid or the origin ([`M_PCA_MODE`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md)).

## Moments

Moments statistics calculations reflect the distribution of matter around a point or axis.

To compute moments statistics, use a custom statistics 3D image processing context with [`M_MOMENTS`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md) enabled. You must also specify the order up to which moments are calculated ([`M_MOMENT_ORDER`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md)). Note that Aurora Imaging Library calculates the moments of the specified order, as well as all lower order moments. For example, setting the order to 3 will calculate third order moments, but also second and first order moments. Retrieve these results using [`M3dimGetResult`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md).

You can retrieve moments statistics results with respect to the origin (ordinary moments), or with respect to the centroid (central moments); use the [`M_MOMENT_XYZ()`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md) and [`M_MOMENT_CENTRAL_XYZ()`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md) result types, respectively. When setting the moment order ([`M_MOMENT_ORDER`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md)) before calculating these results, note that the specified order must be a value that agrees with certain restrictions as per the ordinary or central moment formula (see [`M3dimGetResult`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md)). Specifically, certain ordinary or central moment results require that the sum of the powers in X, Y, and Z not exceed a specific value. For instance, to retrieve PCA moments results, PowerX + PowerY + PowerZ must not exceed 2.

Beyond the [`M_MOMENT_XYZ()`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md) and [`M_MOMENT_CENTRAL_XYZ()`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md) result types, you can retrieve several moments-based results, provided the specified moment order is sufficient. For example, to retrieve [`M_CENTROID_...`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md) or [`M_COMPONENT_OF_INTEREST`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md) results, the specified moment order must be at least 1. Most other moments statistics results require a minimum moment order of 2. These include [`M_COVARIANCE_MATRIX`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md), [`M_EIGENVALUE_...`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md), [`M_PCA_MODE`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md), [`M_PRINCIPAL_AXIS_...`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md), and [`M_STANDARD_DEVIATION_...`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md) results. Note that number-of-points statistics are also available for moments calculations (for example, [`M_NUMBER_OF_POINTS_VALID`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md)), and do not require a specific moment order.

Note that enabling some other statistics calculations is equivalent to enabling moments statistics calculations with a particular order. For example, using [`M3dimControl`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md) to enable centroid calculations is the same as enabling moments calculations and setting the moment order to 1. Similarly, enabling PCA calculations is the same as enabling moments and setting the moment order to 2.
