---
doctype: UserGuide
part: "3D processing and analysis"
chapter: 3D_Image_processing
section: Generating_a_fully_corrected_depth_map
module_tag: 3dim
product: Aurora-Imaging-Library-user-guide
version: 1100
path: "UserGuide / 3D processing and analysis / 3D_Image_processing / Generating a fully corrected depth map"
---

# Generating fully corrected depth and intensity maps

You can generate a fully corrected depth map from a point cloud or 3D geometry. To do so, use [`M3dimProject`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProject.md) or [`M3dimProjectEx`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProjectEx.md), which project the point cloud or 3D geometry onto the XY-plane (Z=0) of the working coordinate system, and converts 3D point information to depth map pixel values. You can also generate an intensity map from a point cloud.

*[Image: 3dmap_depthmap_sample.png]*

> **Note:** Note that you can project 3D data to a fully-corrected depth map image buffer or depth map container.

As an image, a depth map has pixels and a pixel coordinate system where the center of the top-left pixel is (0, 0). However, each pixel can be seen as a 3D coordinate, with the X- and Y-coordinates of a pixel in the depth map corresponding to X- and Y-coordinates of a 3D point (where pixel and world units are suitably scaled). The intensity of a pixel in a depth map corresponds to the Z-coordinate, or depth, of the point. Note that in a depth map container, the range component stores the Z-coordinates, with X- and Y- coordinates stored implicitly by the point's column and row position in the pixel coordinate system, multiplied by X- and Y-scales. For more information on the correspondence between pixel coordinates and world coordinates, see [Transforming coordinates from a depth map to a world coordinate system (or vice versa)](../C28_Calibration/S18_How_coordinates_and_nonpositional_results_are_transformed.md).

In addition to a depth map, you can also generate an intensity map from a point cloud. As with a depth map, the X- and Y-pixel coordinates of the intensity map correspond to the X- and Y-world coordinates of 3D points (where pixel and world units are suitably scaled). The difference between the two maps lies with what the intensities of their pixels correspond. In a depth map, the intensity of a given pixel corresponds to the height of the object at that point. In an intensity map, the intensity of a pixel corresponds to the luminous intensity of the object at that point. In a depth map container, the reflectance component stores intensity information for each pixel of the range component. For more information on intensity maps, see [Generating the intensity map](S15_Generating_a_fully_corrected_depth_map.md). Except when otherwise mentioned, everything in this section that refers to depth maps also includes intensity maps.

## Steps to create a depth map

To create a depth map from a point cloud, you can either call [`M3dimProject`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProject.md) or [`M3dimProjectEx`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProjectEx.md). When using [`M3dimProject`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProject.md), you must pass a calibrated image buffer or depth map container to hold the depth map. You can simplify this process using [`M3dimProjectEx`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProjectEx.md). [`M3dimProjectEx`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProjectEx.md) can calibrate the destination image buffer or allocate and add a range component to the destination container and assign the required 3D properties before projecting. [`M3dimProject`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProject.md) and [`M3dimProjectEx`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProjectEx.md) use the calibration information of the image buffer or the 3D properties of the container's range component so that projected points and depth information correspond to the X-size, Y-size, and Z-scale of the depth map image buffer or container's range component. Note that 3D points are projected onto the XY-plane (Z=0) of the point cloud's working coordinate system, which are then mapped to depth map pixels.

The following steps provide a basic methodology for generating a fully corrected depth map from a point cloud.

1. Optionally, rotate or transform the point cloud (using [`M3dimRotate`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimRotate.md) or [`M3dimMatrixTransform`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimMatrixTransform.md)) so that projecting the point cloud onto the XY-plane of its working coordinate system will result in the required depth map. See [Changing a depth map by rotating or transforming 3D points](S15_Generating_a_fully_corrected_depth_map.md).
2. Optionally, call [`M3dimCalculateMapSize`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimCalculateMapSize.md) or [`M3dimLattice`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimLattice.md) to estimate a recommended depth map buffer size from the source container's point cloud. Note that you can specify a 3D box geometry object to limit which points to include for the calculation. If using [`M3dimProjectEx`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProjectEx.md) with a destination depth map container, [`M3dimProjectEx`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProjectEx.md)can use the source data or a 3D box geometry object to determine the required size before projecting, depending on the [`Options`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProjectEx.md) parameter. See [Estimating a recommended depth map image buffer size](S15_Generating_a_fully_corrected_depth_map.md).
   If you already know the depth map buffer size with which you want to work, you can allocate it directly, without first calling [`M3dimCalculateMapSize`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimCalculateMapSize.md) or [`M3dimLattice`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimLattice.md).
3. If you plan on using [`M3dimProject`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProject.md) or [`M3dimProjectEx`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProjectEx.md) with a depth map image buffer, allocate an image buffer that will hold the depth map, using [`MbufAlloc2d`](../../Reference/buf/MbufAlloc2d.md). If you are generating both a depth map and an intensity map, you must allocate a separate image buffer for each. See [Generating the intensity map](S15_Generating_a_fully_corrected_depth_map.md). Note that you cannot generate an intensity map image buffer using [`M3dimProjectEx`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProjectEx.md).
   If using a depth map container as the destination instead of an image buffer, add a range component of the right size ([`MbufAllocComponent`](../../Reference/buf/MbufAllocComponent.md)) to an empty container ([`MbufAllocContainer`](../../Reference/buf/MbufAllocContainer.md) with [`M_PROC`](../../Reference/buf/MbufAllocContainer.md)). Note that this is not always required for [`M3dimProjectEx`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProjectEx.md). [`M3dimProjectEx`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProjectEx.md) can add a range component to the destination container before projecting, depending on the [`Options`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProjectEx.md) parameter.
4. Calibrate the allocated image buffer for the depth map, using [`M3dimCalibrateDepthMap`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimCalibrateDepthMap.md), or, if you used [`M3dimLattice`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimLattice.md) to determine the depth map image buffer size, use [`McalUniform`](../../Reference/cal/McalUniform.md) and [`McalControl`](../../Reference/cal/McalControl.md).
   If using a depth map container as the destination instead of an image buffer, use [`MbufControlContainer`](../../Reference/buf/MbufControlContainer.md) to set the 3D properties of the range component.
   See [Establishing the world-to-pixel scale and the world-to-gray level scale of the depth map](S15_Generating_a_fully_corrected_depth_map.md).
   This step is not required if using [`M3dimProjectEx`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProjectEx.md), unless the [`Options`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProjectEx.md) parameter is set to [`M_USE_DESTINATION`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProjectEx.md).
   > **Note:** Note that if you are using [`M3dimCalculateMapSize`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimCalculateMapSize.md) and [`M3dimCalibrateDepthMap`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimCalibrateDepthMap.md), you must pass the same point cloud or axis-aligned 3D box geometry to both functions, so that the bounding box for each operation is the same.
   > **Note:** Note that once you have computed a calibration for the depth map image buffer (using [`M3dimCalibrateDepthMap`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimCalibrateDepthMap.md) or [`McalUniform`](../../Reference/cal/McalUniform.md)), you can use the results for multiple calls to [`M3dimProject`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProject.md)/[`M3dimProjectEx`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProjectEx.md), without having to recalculate a calibration each time.
5. Call [`M3dimProject`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProject.md) or [`M3dimProjectEx`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProjectEx.md), specifying the point cloud container that holds the point cloud and the image buffer or container that will hold the depth map. For [`M3dimProject`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProject.md), also specify the image buffer that will hold the intensity map, if required. If using [`M3dimProjectEx`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProjectEx.md) with a destination depth map container, the intensity map will be stored in the [`M_COMPONENT_REFLECTANCE`](../../Reference/buf/MbufAllocComponent.md) or [`M_COMPONENT_INTENSITY`](../../Reference/buf/MbufAllocComponent.md) of the container. After the projection, the resulting depth map will be fully corrected and include a valid Z-scale.

## Changing a depth map by rotating or transforming 3D points

To generate a fully corrected depth map, [`M3dimProject`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProject.md) and [`M3dimProjectEx`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProjectEx.md) project the points of the point cloud on the XY-plane (Z=0) of its working coordinate system. To obtain a different view of the point cloud in the resulting depth map, use [`M3dimRotate`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimRotate.md) or [`M3dimMatrixTransform`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimMatrixTransform.md) to rotate or transform (respectively) the 3D points before calling [`M3dimProject`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProject.md) or [`M3dimProjectEx`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProjectEx.md).

The following image illustrates generating 2 different depth maps from the same point cloud (the wire frame boxes are the objects from which the point clouds are created). Note that the [`ZSign`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimCalibrateDepthMap.md) parameter is set to [`M_NEGATIVE`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimCalibrateDepthMap.md) so that more negative Z-values are brighter in the depth map.

*[Image: 3dmap_changing_resulting_depth_map.png]*

## Defining the points to use

By default, if you pass a point cloud to [`M3dimCalculateMapSize`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimCalculateMapSize.md), [`M3dimLattice`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimLattice.md), [`M3dimCalibrateDepthMap`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimCalibrateDepthMap.md), or [`M3dimProjectEx`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProjectEx.md), the functions will use the bounding box of all points in the point cloud. If you want to exclude some points (for example, outliers), you can limit the calculation to points inside a box if you pass a 3D box geometry to [`M3dimCalculateMapSize`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimCalculateMapSize.md), [`M3dimLattice`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimLattice.md), or [`M3dimProjectEx`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProjectEx.md). If you pass a 3D box geometry to [`M3dimCalculateMapSize`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimCalculateMapSize.md), you should pass the same box to [`M3dimCalibrateDepthMap`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimCalibrateDepthMap.md); doing so ensures that the destination depth map will hold the required point data from inside the box. Optionally, you can apply a crop or mask to the point cloud using [`M3dimCrop`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimCrop.md) before calling [`M3dimProject`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProject.md) or [`M3dimProjectEx`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProjectEx.md) if you need to exclude further points.

If you want to calculate a bounding box that contains most of the points, but rejects outliers, you can use [`M3dimStat`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimStat.md) with an [`M_STAT_CONTEXT_BOUNDING_BOX`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimStat.md) context that has [`M_BOUNDING_BOX_ALGORITHM`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md) set to [`M_ROBUST`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md). See [Determining the bounding box of a point cloud](S13_Calculating_statistics_on_a_point_cloud_or_depth_map.md).

## Estimating a recommended depth map buffer size

Before calling [`M3dimProject`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProject.md) or [`M3dimProjectEx`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProjectEx.md) to generate a depth map, you can use [`M3dimCalculateMapSize`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimCalculateMapSize.md) or [`M3dimLattice`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimLattice.md) to estimate a recommended buffer size in X and Y for the depth map.

When using [`M3dimCalculateMapSize`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimCalculateMapSize.md), the recommended size is based on the given points and is optimized so that the resulting depth map is not too small or large. That is, you will not have a depth map where too many points have been projected into the same pixel (loss of information), or a depth map where the gaps between valid pixels are too large. [`M3dimCalculateMapSize`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimCalculateMapSize.md), by default, does all calculations for the depth map's dimensions. If required, you can set either a fixed image buffer size or pixel size along 1 dimension, and the function will calculate the dimension's remaining size and the necessary sizes for the other dimension. Note that you can only specify a size in both dimensions if the pixel aspect ratio ([`M_PIXEL_ASPECT_RATIO`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md)) is set to [`M_NULL`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md). By default, the pixel aspect ratio is set to 1, which means that the length in X and Y of a depth map pixel is the same. If you have a required pixel aspect ratio and you haven't set a fixed image buffer or pixel size in either dimension, [`M3dimCalculateMapSize`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimCalculateMapSize.md), by default, calculates pixel sizes such that the area of a pixel is the same as in the source container. For point clouds whose lattice aspect ratio is very different than the required depth map pixel aspect ratio, this can result in data loss in one dimension and gaps in the other dimension. You can use [`M3dimControl`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md) with [`M_PIXEL_SIZE_CONSTRAINT`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md) set to [`M_INCREASE_PIXEL_SIZE`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md) or [`M_REDUCE_PIXEL_SIZE`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md) to retain the pixel size in one dimension and either increase or decrease the other to fit the required pixel aspect ratio. The dimension chosen from the point cloud lattice is the one that results in the largest or smallest pixels given the required pixel aspect ratio, respectively. Increasing the pixel size generates a smaller depth map that might have missing data, but it doesn't introduce gaps. Decreasing the pixel size generates a larger depth map that might have gaps, but it doesn't result in data loss.

In the case of [`M3dimLattice`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimLattice.md), if [`M_LATTICE_MODE`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md) is set to [`M_FRACTION_OF_POINTS`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md), the recommended size is determined by dividing the valid points in the point cloud into a required number of cells, such that multiple points can map to the same pixel. Specify the required ratio of valid pixels in the depth map to valid points in the point cloud, using [`M3dimControl`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md) with [`M_FRACTION_OF_POINTS`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md) and [`M_FRACTION_OF_POINTS_TOLERANCE`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md). For example, if you specify a ratio of 0.25 and a tolerance of 0.05, points will be projected into the depth map at an approximate rate of 3-5 points per pixel. If [`M_LATTICE_MODE`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md) is set to [`M_SPARSITY_CHANGE`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md), the recommended size is determined by dividing points into cells based on a plateau of sparsity changes as the grid size increases. Specify the tolerance to use for identifying sparsity changes in grid sizes, using [`M3dimControl`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md) with [`M_SPARSITY_DIMENSION_TOLERANCE`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md). If there are many grid sizes in which the ratio of non-empty cells to empty cells becomes stable, use [`M_GRID_SIZE_INDEX`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md) to specify which grid size to use. You can retrieve the calculated lattice's sizes to use for the depth map, using [`M3dimGetResult`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md) with [`M_NUMBER_OF_CELLS_...`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md).

If using a destination container instead of an image buffer for the depth map, [`M3dimProjectEx`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProjectEx.md) can use the source data ([`M_USE_SRC_DATA`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProjectEx.md)) or a provided 3D box geometry ([`M_USE_BOX_WORLD_SIZE`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProjectEx.md)) to estimate a recommended size and allocate the required [`M_COMPONENT_RANGE`](../../Reference/buf/MbufAllocComponent.md) component or change the dimensions of a previously existing [`M_COMPONENT_RANGE`](../../Reference/buf/MbufAllocComponent.md) component.

Note that using [`M3dimCalculateMapSize`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimCalculateMapSize.md), [`M3dimLattice`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimLattice.md), or [`M3dimProjectEx`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProjectEx.md) to estimate a recommended depth map buffer size is optional. Your 3D sensor might provide organized point clouds with standard XY-dimensions with which you want to work. In this case, you can specify the required dimensions directly when allocating the depth map image buffer, using [`MbufAlloc2d`](../../Reference/buf/MbufAlloc2d.md), or when allocating/adding a range component to an empty container ([`MbufAllocContainer`](../../Reference/buf/MbufAllocContainer.md) with [`M_PROC`](../../Reference/buf/MbufAllocContainer.md)), using [`MbufAllocComponent`](../../Reference/buf/MbufAllocComponent.md). Alternatively, if using [`M3dimProjectEx`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProjectEx.md) with a destination depth map container, you can use [`M3dimControl`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md) with [`M_SIZE_X`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimInquire.md) and [`M_SIZE_Y`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimInquire.md) to specify the required dimensions without needing to allocate the range component.

## Establishing the world-to-pixel scale and the world-to-gray level scale of the depth map

To automatically determine the world-to-pixel scale and world-to-gray level scale for the depth map, use [`M3dimCalibrateDepthMap`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimCalibrateDepthMap.md). Alternatively, you can use [`M3dimProjectEx`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProjectEx.md) with an option other than [`M_USE_DESTINATION`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProjectEx.md).

For a depth map image buffer, you can manually set the world-to-pixel scale and world-to-gray level scale, using [`McalUniform`](../../Reference/cal/McalUniform.md) and [`McalControl`](../../Reference/cal/McalControl.md) with [`M_GRAY_LEVEL_SIZE_Z`](../../Reference/cal/McalControl.md), respectively.

For depth map containers, use [`MbufControlContainer`](../../Reference/buf/MbufControlContainer.md) to manually set the 3D properties required to produce natively calibrated coordinates.

### How to calibrate the buffer

Ultimately, you want a depth map with constant world-to-pixel and world-to-gray level scales. You can use [`M3dimCalibrateDepthMap`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimCalibrateDepthMap.md) to determine the ratio between the specified point cloud's dimensions (measured in world units) and the depth map buffer (measured in pixels), and automatically calibrate the buffer with this information. Default settings use a square pixel size.

Alternatively, if you previously called [`M3dimLattice`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimLattice.md) to calculate the depth map buffer size, you can retrieve the translation and scale of the transformation between pixel and world units, using [`M3dimGetResult`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md) with [`M_START_POINT_...`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md) and [`M_CELL_SIZE_...`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md), and then pass these values to [`McalUniform`](../../Reference/cal/McalUniform.md) to calibrate the image buffer with this information.

For depth map containers, 3D properties are applied to the coordinates stored in the range component to achieve world coordinates. Use [`MbufControlContainer`](../../Reference/buf/MbufControlContainer.md) to set [`M_3D_OFFSET_...`](../../Reference/buf/MbufControlContainer.md) of the range component to [`M_START_POINT_...`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md). Additionally, set [`M_3D_SCALE_...`](../../Reference/buf/MbufControlContainer.md) of the range component to [`M_CELL_SIZE_X`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md), [`M_CELL_SIZE_Y`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimGetResult.md), and the required Z-scale (typically [`M_SIZE_Z`](../../Reference/3dgeo/M3dgeoInquire.md) of the 3D box geometry divided by the maximum value of the range).

Note that [`M3dimProjectEx`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProjectEx.md) can use the source data ([`M_FIT_SRC_DATA`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProjectEx.md) or [`M_USE_SRC_DATA`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProjectEx.md)) or a provided 3D box geometry ([`M_FIT_BOX`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProjectEx.md) or [`M_USE_BOX_WORLD_SIZE`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProjectEx.md)) to automatically calibrate the image buffer or set the required 3D properties of the container's range component before projecting.

*[Image: 3dmap_extraction_scale.png]*

To inquire about a depth map image buffer's scale values, call [`McalInquire`](../../Reference/cal/McalInquire.md) with the identifier of the depth map image buffer and [`M_PIXEL_SIZE_X`](../../Reference/cal/McalInquire.md) or [`M_PIXEL_SIZE_Y`](../../Reference/cal/McalInquire.md) to inquire the real-world length in X or Y of one depth map pixel; inquire [`M_GRAY_LEVEL_SIZE_Z`](../../Reference/cal/McalInquire.md) to obtain the step, in world units, along the Z-axis of the relative coordinate system represented by one gray level. To inquire the equivalent for a depth map container, call [`MbufInquireContainer`](../../Reference/buf/MbufInquireContainer.md) with the identifier of the depth map container and [`M_3D_SCALE_X`](../../Reference/buf/MbufInquireContainer.md), [`M_3D_SCALE_Y`](../../Reference/buf/MbufInquireContainer.md), or [`M_3D_SCALE_Z`](../../Reference/buf/MbufInquireContainer.md).

### Specifying data placement in the destination buffer

Depending on the source point cloud, it might not fit exactly within the destination buffer's dimensions. When calling [`M3dimCalibrateDepthMap`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimCalibrateDepthMap.md), you can use the [`ControlFlag`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimCalibrateDepthMap.md) parameter to specify where to place valid values in the destination buffer; you can set the parameter to [`M_DEFAULT`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimCalibrateDepthMap.md) or [`M_CENTER`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimCalibrateDepthMap.md). In the [`M_DEFAULT`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimCalibrateDepthMap.md) case, the data aligns to the top left of the buffer, and [`M3dimCalibrateDepthMap`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimCalibrateDepthMap.md) calculates a pixel size such that the data extends at least the breadth of one dimension, and no data is lost along the other dimension. Leftover pixels are set to the invalid value, and are always located to the right or bottom of the valid data in the image buffer. In the [`M_CENTER`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimCalibrateDepthMap.md) case, valid data is centered in the buffer and extends the full breadth of one dimension with no loss of data along the other dimension. Leftover pixels are located above and below or to the right and left of the valid data. Note that the source data maintains its aspect ratio, and is not affected by the destination's aspect ratio.

Note that if using [`M3dimProjectEx`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProjectEx.md) to calibrate the buffer, use [`M3dimControl`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md) with [`M_CALIBRATION_ALIGNMENT`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimInquire.md) ([`M_TOP_LEFT`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md) or [`M_CENTER`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md)).

The following illustration shows source data placement in the destination image buffer.

*[Image: 3dim_CalibrateDM_CtrlFlg.png]*

### Automatically setting the pixel aspect ratio

When using [`M3dimCalibrateDepthMap`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimCalibrateDepthMap.md), you can set the [`PixelSizeAspectRatio`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimCalibrateDepthMap.md) parameter to [`M_NULL`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimCalibrateDepthMap.md) so that projected data fits exactly onto the depth map image buffer, with no invalid rows or columns. This is useful, for example, when using a laser profiler to generate the source point cloud. Data along X depends on the camera resolution, while data along Y depends on the frame rate and the speed of the conveyor. The disparity between these dimensions makes it difficult to use a 1:1 pixel aspect ratio, and doing so would result in data loss in the X-direction, or gaps in the Y-dimension if a square pixel size was enforced. To ensure a calculated map size without gaps or data loss, and a corresponding exact fit of projected data into the depth map image buffer, use [`M3dimControl`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md) with [`M_PIXEL_ASPECT_RATIO`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md) set to [`M_NULL`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md) when setting up the calculate map size 3D image processing context, and then use [`M3dimCalibrateDepthMap`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimCalibrateDepthMap.md) with [`M_NULL`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimCalibrateDepthMap.md) when calibrating the destination image buffer.

### Specifying the depth map intensity scale

Aurora Imaging Library automatically sets the real-world to gray level scale [`M_GRAY_LEVEL_SIZE_Z`](../../Reference/cal/McalControl.md) when you call [`M3dimCalibrateDepthMap`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimCalibrateDepthMap.md). By default, [`M_GRAY_LEVEL_SIZE_Z`](../../Reference/cal/McalControl.md) is considered positive ([`M_POSITIVE`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimCalibrateDepthMap.md)), which means larger (more positive) Z-values have the brightest gray levels and smaller (more negative) Z-values are darker. To invert the gray level values, set the [`ZSign`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimCalibrateDepthMap.md) parameter to [`M_NEGATIVE`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimCalibrateDepthMap.md).

If the Z-axis points downward, the object is in the negative Z-region of the working coordinate system, and more negative Z-values indicate a higher surface and are darker in the depth map (assuming [`ZSign`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimCalibrateDepthMap.md) is set to [`M_POSITIVE`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimCalibrateDepthMap.md)). The following image shows the distribution of gray values when the object is in the positive or negative Z-region, and when [`ZSign`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimCalibrateDepthMap.md) is set to [`M_POSITIVE`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimCalibrateDepthMap.md) or [`M_NEGATIVE`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimCalibrateDepthMap.md).

*[Image: 3dmap_extraction_scale_pos.png]*

*[Image: 3dmap_extraction_scale_neg.png]*

Note that calling [`McalUniform`](../../Reference/cal/McalUniform.md) does not automatically set the real-world to gray level scale. You must specify the scale using [`McalControl`](../../Reference/cal/McalControl.md) with [`M_GRAY_LEVEL_SIZE_Z`](../../Reference/cal/McalControl.md).

## Saturating or ignoring points outside the depth map grayscale range

The depth map buffer's grayscale range, along with [`M_GRAY_LEVEL_SIZE_Z`](../../Reference/cal/McalControl.md), determines the maximum and minimum Z-values representable in the depth map. A point can be outside the depth map grayscale range. For instance, if the Z-axis scale is 0.02 cm/gray level in an 8-bit image, a point that is 1 cm high has a gray value of 50. At about 5 cm, the gray value reaches its maximum for the bit depth, 254.

Out-of-range points can occur if you pass [`M3dimCalibrateDepthMap`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimCalibrateDepthMap.md) a point cloud or 3D box geometry that has different bounding box dimensions from the point cloud passed to [`M3dimProject`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProject.md).

If a point's Z-coordinate is not in the depth map grayscale range, the point is ignored or it saturates the pixel to which it maps. To specify which should occur, use [`M3dimProject`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProject.md) with the [`Options`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProject.md) parameter set to [`M_DEFAULT`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProject.md) to ignore or [`M_SATURATION`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProject.md) to saturate. If using [`M3dimProjectEx`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProjectEx.md), use [`M3dimControl`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md) with [`M_SATURATION`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md).

By ignoring the point ([`M_DEFAULT`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProject.md) or [`M_DISABLE`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md)), it is not included in the calculation of the depth map pixel's gray value. If there are other points that project onto this pixel, they are used to calculate the gray value. Otherwise, the pixel is rendered as invalid, and set to the buffer's maximum value (for example, 255 for an 8-bit buffer).

By saturating the point ([`M_SATURATION`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProject.md) or [`M_ENABLE`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md)), the pixel's gray level value is clipped to either the maximum possible valid value ([`M_MAX`](../../Reference/buf/MbufInquire.md) - 1) or the minimum possible value ([`M_MIN`](../../Reference/buf/MbufInquire.md)), depending on whether the point maps to a value above or below the grayscale range.

## Remapping the depth map

You might require a depth map that contains only a specific range of depths for analysis, or the depth map has to be of a certain bit depth. For example, [`MmodFind`](../../Reference/mod/MmodFind.md) accepts only 8-bit image buffers. You can use [`M3dimRemapDepthMap`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimRemapDepthMap.md) to remap a depth map to fit within a specified Z-range, or convert the depth map to a different data type.

To remap a depth map, perform the following:

1. Acquire or create the source depth map.
2. Allocate a remap 3D image processing context, using [`M3dimAlloc`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimAlloc.md) with [`M_REMAP_CONTEXT`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimAlloc.md) to hold the remap settings. Note that you can skip this step and use a default context instead.
3. Specify the remap mode ([`M_REMAP_MODE`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md)) and other options, using successive calls to [`M3dimControl`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md). The remap mode determines the Z-range of the destination depth map, based on specific criteria such as the source depth map's standard deviations from the mean Z-value, its maximum and minimum pixel values, or user-specified values.
4. Allocate an image buffer or container to hold the remapped depth map, using [`MbufAlloc2d`](../../Reference/buf/MbufAlloc2d.md) or [`MbufAllocContainer`](../../Reference/buf/MbufAllocContainer.md). Note that the destination image buffer must have the same dimensions ([`SizeX`](../../Reference/buf/MbufAlloc2d.md) and [`SizeY`](../../Reference/buf/MbufAlloc2d.md)) as the source depth map image buffer.
5. Remap the depth map, using [`M3dimRemapDepthMap`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimRemapDepthMap.md).

## Generating the intensity map

In an intensity map, the gray value of each pixel represents the luminosity of the original scene at this point. You can use this information to determine, for example, whether the surface is dark or light, or if the surface is reflective.

*[Image: 3dmap_example_types_intensitymaps.png]*

To generate the intensity map, allocate an image buffer and pass its identifier to [`M3dimProject`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProject.md). The width and height of the intensity map image buffer ([`SizeX`](../../Reference/buf/MbufAlloc2d.md) and [`SizeY`](../../Reference/buf/MbufAlloc2d.md)) must be the same as the depth map image buffer. Note that you can allocate a 3-band image buffer (using [`MbufAllocColor`](../../Reference/buf/MbufAllocColor.md)) for the intensity map if the point cloud container's [`M_COMPONENT_REFLECTANCE`](../../Reference/buf/MbufAllocComponent.md) or [`M_COMPONENT_INTENSITY`](../../Reference/buf/MbufAllocComponent.md) component is also 3-band. The number of bands of this buffer must match the number of bands of the source point cloud container's [`M_COMPONENT_REFLECTANCE`](../../Reference/buf/MbufAllocComponent.md) or [`M_COMPONENT_INTENSITY`](../../Reference/buf/MbufAllocComponent.md) component. Note that the image buffer for the intensity map does not have to be calibrated; [`M3dimProject`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProject.md) will calibrate it using the calibration information of the depth map image buffer. If you specify [`M_NULL`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProject.md) as the identifier of the intensity map buffer, an intensity map is not generated.

Note that [`M3dimProjectEx`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProjectEx.md) can only generate an intensity map when using a destination container. If [`M3dimControl`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md) with [`M_PROJECTED_COMPONENTS`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md) is set to [`M_COMPONENT_RANGE_AND_REFLECTANCE`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md) or [`M_COMPONENT_ALL`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimControl.md), intensity values from the source container's [`M_COMPONENT_REFLECTANCE`](../../Reference/buf/MbufAllocComponent.md) or [`M_COMPONENT_INTENSITY`](../../Reference/buf/MbufAllocComponent.md) component (if one exists) are projected into the destination container's [`M_COMPONENT_REFLECTANCE`](../../Reference/buf/MbufAllocComponent.md) or [`M_COMPONENT_INTENSITY`](../../Reference/buf/MbufAllocComponent.md) component (respectively), which is created if not previously existing in the destination container. If both components exist in the source container, only the reflectance component is considered.

## Adding color to a depth map for better visualization

To enhance your ability to differentiate small intensity differences in your depth map, you can apply a colormap LUT to the depth map image buffer, as in the image below.

*[Image: 3dmap_extraction_scale_color_depth_map_LUT.png]*

The basic steps to apply a colormap to a depth map are as follows:

1. Allocate a 3-band LUT buffer using [`MbufAllocColor`](../../Reference/buf/MbufAllocColor.md) with [`M_LUT`](../../Reference/buf/MbufAllocColor.md). Ensure that your LUT buffer width is at least as large as the number of different possible intensities in the depth map (256 for 8-bit depth maps, 65536 for 16-bit depth maps).
2. Populate the LUT buffer with colors for each intensity using [`MgenLutFunction`](../../Reference/gen/MgenLutFunction.md) with a colormap, such as [`M_COLORMAP_JET`](../../Reference/gen/MgenLutFunction.md).
3. Optionally, to highlight invalid pixels, add the [`M_LAST_GRAY`](../../Reference/gen/MgenLutFunction.md) combination value. When specified, the color assigned to the highest index of the LUT is replaced. Set the [`b`](../../Reference/gen/MgenLutFunction.md) parameter to specify the replacement color. Specifying a value that is not among the colors in the LUT (for instance gray) allows you to find areas with invalid points more easily. Alternatively, you can use [`MbufPutColor2d`](../../Reference/buf/MbufPutColor2d.md) to replace elements (colors) in a LUT.
4. Associate the LUT buffer with the display using [`MdispLut`](../../Reference/disp/MdispLut.md). This adds color to the image displayed on the screen, but does not affect the image itself. The grayscale depth map is not changed as a result of this function. You can associate a LUT buffer to a 3D display using [`M3dgraControl`](../../Reference/3dgra/M3dgraControl.md) with [`M_COLOR_USE_LUT`](../../Reference/3dgra/M3dgraControl.md) set to [`M_TRUE`](../../Reference/3dgra/M3dgraControl.md). See [Applying LUTs](../C43_3D_Display_and_graphics/S04_Color_and_display_settings_for_3D_data.md) for more information.

For more information on modifying how a 1-band image, such as a depth map, is displayed using a LUT buffer, see [Mapping 1-band images through a LUT upon display](../C25_Displaying_an_image/S09_Mapping_1band_images_through_a_LUT_upon_display.md).

## Gradually adding data to the depth map and intensity map image buffers

Normally, when you call [`M3dimProject`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProject.md) or [`M3dimProjectEx`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProjectEx.md), these functions clear the depth map and intensity map buffers before writing to them. However, when the [`M_ACCUMULATE`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProject.md) option is specified, [`M3dimProject`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProject.md) and [`M3dimProjectEx`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProjectEx.md) add the data without clearing these buffers first. Before the first call to [`M3dimProject`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProject.md) or [`M3dimProjectEx`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProjectEx.md) and before starting to extract data of another object, do not use the [`M_ACCUMULATE`](../../Reference/3dim/M3dimProject.md) option.

## Point cloud projection example

For an illustration of projecting a point cloud to generate a depth map, see the_ pointcloudprojection.cpp_ example in Aurora Imaging Example Launcher.
