---
doctype: UserGuide
part: "2D processing and analysis"
chapter: Geometric_Model_Finder
section: Position_angle_scale
module_tag: mod
product: Aurora-Imaging-Library-user-guide
version: 1100
path: "UserGuide / 2D processing and analysis / model-finder / Position angle scale"
---

# Position, angle, and scale

You can control the position, angle, and scale at which Model Finder searches for each model in a target.

You can restrict the position, angle, and scale at which model occurrences can be found, to an expected (nominal) position, angle, or scale or to a given range.

## Enabling calculations specific to searching within a range

Depending on whether searching for models within a range of positions, angles, and/or scales, Model Finder typically uses different search strategies to evaluate the edge-based features of the target candidates. Typically, to search for models within a range, calculations specific to the corresponding search strategy should be enabled for the context ([`MmodControl`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md) with [`M_SEARCH_POSITION_RANGE`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md), [`M_SEARCH_ANGLE_RANGE`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md), and/or [`M_SEARCH_SCALE_RANGE`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md)). If you expect that the occurrences sought are close to the specified nominal position, angle, or scale (for example, in a registration application), you can try disabling the calculations specific to the corresponding search strategies to see if Model Finder can still find the required occurrences. Disabling one or more of these calculations might speed up the search depending on the model and the target.

These control types are not supported for [`M_SHAPE_...`](../../Reference/mod/MmodAlloc.md) type of Model Finder contexts because these search strategies are natively supported.

Note that candidates can only be returned as results if found within the ranges specified for their model. Therefore, if you have disabled calculations specific to a search strategy and occurrences at positions, angles, and/or scales outside of a required range are being returned, you can restrict which candidates are returned as occurrences by narrowing the appropriate ranges. Furthermore, the various search ranges can still be set even if the calculation specific to the corresponding search strategy has been disabled. This is due to the fact that at the end of the matching process, Aurora Imaging Library performs a best fit match for finer accuracy. This final fit process can introduce model translations (rotation, position-shifting, scaling) relative to the expected occurrence. Once potential candidates have been identified, the final fit process will look for the best model within the specified ranges. Therefore, it is possible to restrict this final fit process to a smaller range than normally allowed, by explicitly setting the accepted range for identified candidates.

## Search position and position range

You can search for each model defined in a Model Finder context at a specific position or within a position range. The position range limits the region in which the position of a model occurrence can be found; position coordinates which fall outside this region cannot be returned as results ([`MmodGetResult`](../../Reference/mod/MmodGetResult.md) with [`M_POSITION_X`](../../Reference/mod/MmodGetResult.md) and [`M_POSITION_Y`](../../Reference/mod/MmodGetResult.md)). Note that the position returned for an occurrence is determined by the model's reference axis origin; by default, this position is set to the center of the model; however, it can be displaced if necessary (see [Reference axis](S11_Customizing_search_settings.md)).

*[Image: LimitedSearchRegionNotOffset.png]*

The default position range is the entire image plane ([`M_INFINITE`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md)) in the positive X- and Y-direction, meaning that all X- and Y-coordinates in the positive direction (even outside the target if applicable) can be returned as results. You can use the [`MmodControl`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md)   [`M_POSITION_DELTA_NEG_X`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md), [`M_POSITION_DELTA_NEG_Y`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md), [`M_POSITION_DELTA_POS_X`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md), and [`M_POSITION_DELTA_POS_Y`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md) control types to set the position range relative to the nominal position. Alternatively, you can define a search position region using a rectangle drawn in a 2D graphics list by allocating a 2D graphics list, defining a rectangle within this 2D graphics list, and then using [`MmodControl`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md) with [`M_SEARCH_POSITION_FROM_GRAPHIC_LIST`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md). For models in [`M_SHAPE_...`](../../Reference/mod/MmodAlloc.md) type of Model Finder contexts, you can also search within a rectangular region by passing a target image buffer associated with a rectangular [`M_VECTOR`](../../Reference/buf/MbufInquire.md) or [`M_VECTOR_AND_RASTER`](../../Reference/buf/MbufInquire.md) region of interest (ROI) directly to [`MmodFind`](../../Reference/mod/MmodFind.md). You can set this ROI using [`MbufSetRegion`](../../Reference/buf/MbufSetRegion.md).

You can, if necessary, set a different position range for each model in your context.

*[Image: SearchRegion.png]*

Depending on the number of details present in the target, using a small position range generally decreases the search time. Always set the position range to the minimum required when speed is a consideration; [`M_POSITION_DELTA_NEG_X`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md), [`M_POSITION_DELTA_NEG_Y`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md), [`M_POSITION_DELTA_POS_X`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md), and [`M_POSITION_DELTA_POS_Y`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md) can be greater or equal to zero. If they are all set to zero, the occurrence must be at the position specified by the nominal position.

Note that you can specify a position range which defines a region partially, or totally, outside of the target; this might be necessary, depending on the reference axis origin of the model.

By default, for an [`M_GEOMETRIC`](../../Reference/mod/MmodAlloc.md) or [`M_GEOMETRIC_CONTROLLED`](../../Reference/mod/MmodAlloc.md) type of Model Finder context, calculations specific to position-range search strategies are enabled but can be disabled (see [Enabling calculations specific to searching within a range](S10_Position_angle_scale.md)). If you are searching for a single occurrence of each model in your context and you know the nominal position of each (for example, registration applications), you can disable the calculations specific to position-range search strategies for the context, using [`MmodControl`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md) with [`M_SEARCH_POSITION_RANGE`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md) set to [`M_DISABLE`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md). When disabled, you must specify a good nominal position for each model (using [`MmodControl`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md) with [`M_POSITION_X`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md) and [`M_POSITION_Y`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md)). You can restrict which candidates are returned as occurrences by narrowing the position-range.

For an [`M_SHAPE_...`](../../Reference/mod/MmodAlloc.md) type of Model Finder context, calculations specific to position-range search strategies are not necessary; as such, [`M_SEARCH_POSITION_RANGE`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md) is not supported.

With [`M_SHAPE_...`](../../Reference/mod/MmodAlloc.md) type of Model Finder contexts, you can search for a model within rectangular regions at an angle. You can specify the search region with [`MmodControl`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md) and [`M_POSITION_...`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md), and set its angle with [`M_ANGLE_REGION`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md). You can also specify a rotated search region using [`MmodControl`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md) with[`M_SEARCH_POSITION_FROM_GRAPHIC_LIST`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md). To do so, pass a 2D graphics list containing one rectangle graphic at any angle and set its input units to pixels. The rectangle graphic will define the search region. Setting the search region at an angle does not affect the angle at which Aurora Imaging Library expects to find the model; it only limits the location in which the reference position of the model can be found. If you expect to find the model at a non-zero angle, you must set its nominal search angle, using [`MmodControl`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md) with [`M_ANGLE`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md). Likewise, searching within a region at an angle has no effect on the angle of a found occurrence's reference axis returned by [`MmodGetResult`](../../Reference/mod/MmodGetResult.md). Alternatively, you can search within a rotated rectangular region by passing a target image buffer associated with a rectangular [`M_VECTOR`](../../Reference/buf/MbufInquire.md) or [`M_VECTOR_AND_RASTER`](../../Reference/buf/MbufInquire.md) region of interest (ROI) at any angle to [`MmodFind`](../../Reference/mod/MmodFind.md). You can set this ROI using [`MbufSetRegion`](../../Reference/buf/MbufSetRegion.md). Passing a target image buffer associated with a rectangular ROI to [`MmodFind`](../../Reference/mod/MmodFind.md) will override the [`MmodControl`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md)[`M_POSITION_...`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md) and [`M_ANGLE_REGION`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md) control types during the search and use the settings of the ROI instead. Likewise, passing a target image buffer associated with a rectangular ROI to [`MmodFind`](../../Reference/mod/MmodFind.md) will override the search region settings specified using [`M_SEARCH_POSITION_FROM_GRAPHIC_LIST`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md) and a 2D graphics list.

## Angle and angular range

You can search for each model defined in a Model Finder context at a specific angle or within an angular range. For each model in your context, you can specify the angle of the search, using [`MmodControl`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md) with [`M_ANGLE`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md). By default, the search angle is 0°.

*[Image: AngleConvention.png]*

You can also search within the full angular range of 360° from the nominal angle specified with [`M_ANGLE`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md). Use the [`MmodControl`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md)   [`M_ANGLE_DELTA_POS`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md) and [`M_ANGLE_DELTA_NEG`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md) control types to specify the angular range in the counter-clockwise and clockwise direction from the nominal angle, respectively; the default for both is 180°. The angular range limits the possible angles which can be returned as results for an occurrence. Note that for general geometric contexts, the actual angle of the occurrence does not affect search speed. If you need to search for a model at discrete angles only (for example, at intervals of 90 degrees), it is typically more efficient to allocate a controlled geometric context, and define several models with different expected angles, than to search through the full angular range.

*[Image: DeltaConvention.png]*

For a model in an [`M_SHAPE_RECTANGLE`](../../Reference/mod/MmodAlloc.md) or [`M_SHAPE_SEGMENT`](../../Reference/mod/MmodAlloc.md) Model Finder context, there are additional control types related to angle to control the segment and rectangle found; see [Angle for rectangles and segments](S12_Search_settings_specific_to_models_in_specialized_shape_contexts.md).

By default, for an [`M_GEOMETRIC`](../../Reference/mod/MmodAlloc.md) or [`M_GEOMETRIC_CONTROLLED`](../../Reference/mod/MmodAlloc.md) type of Model Finder context, calculations specific to angular-range search strategies are enabled but can be disabled (see [Enabling calculations specific to searching within a range](S10_Position_angle_scale.md)). If you expect that the occurrences sought are close to the specified nominal angle, you can disable the angular calculations using [`MmodControl`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md) with [`M_SEARCH_ANGLE_RANGE`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md) set to [`M_DISABLE`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md). When disabled, you must specify a good nominal angle for each model, which is within the model's angular range. You can restrict which candidates are returned as occurrences by narrowing the angular-range.

Note that [`M_SEARCH_ANGLE_RANGE`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md) must be enabled to search for a rotation-invariant non-synthetic model (for example, an image-type model of a circle).

Note that the angle of the search region does not affect the nominal angle at which Aurora Imaging Library expects to find occurrences. For more information, refer to [Search position and range](S10_Position_angle_scale.md).

## Scale and scale range

The scale of the model establishes the size of the occurrence that you expect to find in the target. If the expected occurrence is smaller or larger than that of the model, you can set the nominal scale of the occurrence for each individual model, using [`MmodControl`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md) with [`M_SCALE`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md). The supported scale factors are 0.5 to 2.0 for models in an [`M_GEOMETRIC`](../../Reference/mod/MmodAlloc.md) or [`M_GEOMETRIC_CONTROLLED`](../../Reference/mod/MmodAlloc.md)type of Model Finder context. For models in an [`M_SHAPE_...`](../../Reference/mod/MmodAlloc.md) type of Model Finder context, the nominal scale can be any positive value.

When the scale of occurrences can vary around the specified nominal scale, you can enable calculations specific to scale-range search strategies for the context using [`MmodControl`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md) with [`M_SEARCH_SCALE_RANGE`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md) set to [`M_ENABLE`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md). To specify the range of scales, use [`MmodControl`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md) with [`M_SCALE_MAX_FACTOR`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md) and [`M_SCALE_MIN_FACTOR`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md). The minimum factor and the maximum factor together determine the scale range from the nominal scale ([`M_SCALE`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md)).

The maximum and minimum factors are applied to the [`M_SCALE`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md) setting as follows:

`_Maximum scale_ = ([`M_SCALE`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md)) x ([`M_SCALE_MAX_FACTOR`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md))`

`_Minimum scale_ = ([`M_SCALE`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md)) x ([`M_SCALE_MIN_FACTOR`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md))`

Note that the range is defined as factors so that if you change the expected scale ([`M_SCALE`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md)), you do not have to modify the range. A search through a range of scales is performed in parallel, meaning that the actual scale of an occurrence has no bearing on which occurrence will be found first.

By default, for an [`M_GEOMETRIC`](../../Reference/mod/MmodAlloc.md) type of Model Finder context, calculations specific to scale-range search strategies are disabled but can be enabled (see [Enabling calculations specific to searching within a range](S10_Position_angle_scale.md)). When disabled, you must specify a good nominal scale for each model, which is within the model's scale range. Note that occurrences can still be found within the scale range specified for their model. You can restrict which candidates are returned as occurrences by narrowing the scale-range. When calculations specific to scale-range search strategies are enabled, the scale range should be used to cover an expected variance in the scale; you should not use the scale range to cover different expected scales at different positions. In this case, it is typically more efficient to define several models with different expected scales. This is because a large scale range could potentially slow down your operation; as well, you could find unwanted occurrences.

For models in an [`M_GEOMETRIC_CONTROLLED`](../../Reference/mod/MmodAlloc.md) type of Model Finder context, scale-range searches are not supported, so you cannot enable [`M_SEARCH_SCALE_RANGE`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md). However, you can still use [`M_SCALE_MAX_FACTOR`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md) and [`M_SCALE_MIN_FACTOR`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md)to restrict the results that are returned.

For an [`M_SHAPE_...`](../../Reference/mod/MmodAlloc.md) type of Model Finder context, calculations specific to scale-range search strategies are not necessary because scale-range is natively supported; as such, [`M_SEARCH_SCALE_RANGE`](../../Reference/mod/MmodControl.md) is not supported.
