---
doctype: UserGuide
part: "Miscellaneous"
chapter: Using_Linux_and_GigE_Vision_Cameras
section: Bandwidth_optimization
module_tag: null
product: Aurora-Imaging-Library-user-guide
version: 1100
path: "UserGuide / Miscellaneous / using-linux-and-gigE-vision-cameras / Bandwidth optimization"
---

# Bandwidth optimization

If you are using a high bandwidth camera it is probable that your computer will not be able to handle the load with default settings. You should raise the MTU (Maximum Transmission Unit) value above the default of 1500 bytes. This will minimize the number of packets transmitted, hence reducing the number of interrupts your system must service. It is the most important setting to change to help your system cope with high bandwidth cameras. You can also augment the number of reception buffers. This helps your system not lose packets when a spike in processing prevents it from immediately handling packet reception.

## Ethernet packet size

The maximum MTU you can use is specific to your network card and kernel; 9000 is accepted by most setups. If you are using a Zebra Concord PoE, the maximum is 9212. If you are using a Zebra GevIQ, you must use 9014. You can use either of the following commands to change this setting until the next reboot:

```
# ifconfig eth0 mtu 9000 
```

```
# ip link set eth0 mtu 9000 
```

This is useful for testing the best setting on your system. Note that eth0 represents the interface your camera is connected to, and must be replaced accordingly.

### Setting MTU in NetworkManager GUI (nm-connection-editor)

Start nm-connection-editor, select the interface you want to modify, and click the cog button.

*[Image: mtu_nm_connection_editor.png]*

In the **Ethernet** tab, the **MTU** field allows you to set the maximum packet size. Note that the default setting is 1500, not the maximum possible.

### Setting MTU for interface in NetworkManager Console (nmtui-edit)

Start nmtui-edit select the interface you want to modify and select the **Edit…** option.

*[Image: mtu_nm_nmtui_edit.png]*

You might need to select the **Show** option on the **ETHERNET** line to show the **MTU** field.

### Setting MTU for bond in NetworkManager Console (nmtui-edit)

nmtui-edit currently does not have an option to set the MTU for a bond. To change the MTU of a bond, you will need to modify the configuration file generated by the **NetworkManager** UI. This file can be found in _/etc/netplan_ for Netplan and _/etc/NetworkManager/system-connections/_ for NetworkManager, depending on your system configuration.

If you are using Netplan, the configuration file located in _/etc/netplan_ might have an ambiguous name (for example, 90-NM-e5be9f93-dc3d-4512-8b4e-66f78d265763.yaml). The format of the configuration file is as follows:

```
network:
  version: 2
  bonds:
    bond0:
      renderer: NetworkManager
      dhcp4: true
      dhcp6: true
      ipv6-address-generation: "stable-privacy"
      mtu: 9014
      parameters:
        mode: "broadcast"
        mii-monitor-interval: "1"
        up-delay: "0"
        down-delay: "0"
      networkmanager:
        uuid: "e5be9f93-dc3d-4512-8b4e-66f78d265763"
        name: "Bond connection 1"
        passthrough:
          ipv6.ip6-privacy: "-1"
          proxy._: ""
```

Note that the line "mtu:9014" is added to this file. Ensure proper indentation throughout the file.

If you are using NetworkManager, the configuration file located in _/etc/NetworkManager/system-connections_ will be the **Profile name** shown in **nmtui-edit**, followed by  .nmconnection (for example, _/etc/NetworkManager/system-connections/Bond connection 1.nmconnection_). This file will have an ethernet section where you can add the MTU you want to use. The format of the configuration file is as follows:

```
[connection]
id=Bond connection 1
uuid=fc26f094-1c98-4250-8cfa-90a74897c7d7
type=bond
interface-name=nm-bond
permissions=
timestamp=1652115352
zone=trusted
         
[ethernet]
mac-address-blacklist=
mtu=9000
         
[bond]
downdelay=0
miimon=100
mode=broadcast
updelay=0
         
[ipv4]
dns-search=
method=link-local
         
[ipv6]
addr-gen-mode=stable-privacy
dns-search=
method=auto
         
[proxy]
```

Note that the line "mtu=9000" is added to this file.

## Interface buffering

The number of buffers to use for receiving network packets is not configurable on every board or distribution. The tool used to access these settings (ethtool) is available on all distributions but is not installed on all distributions by default. If installed, you can view the current settings and the maximums available with the following command:

```
$ ethtool -g eth0
```

This will print something similar to the following:

```
Ring parameters for eth0:
Pre-set maximums:
RX: 4096
RX Mini: 0
RX Jumbo: 0
TX: 4096
Current hardware settings:
RX: 256
RX Mini: 0
RX Jumbo: 0
TX: 256 
```

In this example there are 256 reception (RX) buffers and the maximum is 4096. Unless you are limited in RAM, there is no reason to not set it to the maximum when grabbing with a demanding GigE Vision camera. To change the number of buffers to the maximum in this example, use the following command:

```
# ethtool -G eth0 rx 4096
```

Note that this setting will return to default at the next reboot.

### Setting number of buffers with NetworkManager

NetworkManager GUI doesn't have an option to set the number of receiving buffers; you must write a dispatcher script. Create the file _/etc/NetworkManager/dispatcher.d/30-ethtool_ with the following content:

```
#!/bin/bash
if [ "$1" == "eth0" ] && [ "$2" == "up" ]; then
    ethtool -G "$1" rx 4096
fi
```

This file is a shell script and it needs to be executable. You can do this with:

```
# chmod +x /etc/NetworkManager/dispatcher.d/30-ethtool
```

This script will be called with two arguments. The first is the interface name and the second is the event. The only event of interest for this function is up. If you have multiples interfaces to set, you can combine multiple if statements with the appropriate number of buffers for each. If you have a bond or teaming, you must set the buffers on each interface. You can do this with code similar to the following:

```
if [ "$1" == "bond0" ] && [ "$2" == "up" ]; then
    for INTERFACE in bond0 eth0 eth1; do
        ethtool -G "$1" rx 4096
    done
fi
```
