---
doctype: UserGuide
part: "2D processing and analysis"
chapter: Bead
section: Basic_concepts
module_tag: bead
product: Aurora-Imaging-Library-user-guide
version: 1100
path: "UserGuide / 2D processing and analysis / bead / Basic concepts"
---

# Basic concepts for the Aurora Imaging Library Bead module

The basic concepts and vocabulary conventions for the Aurora Imaging Library Bead module are:

- **Bead**. A strip of malleable material, such as glue or lead, typically used to bond objects together.
- **Bead template**. A reusable model of a bead.
- **Edge**. A curve that delineates a boundary, which can be established from intensity transitions in an image.
- **Gap**. Consecutive measured points that were expected but not found.
- **Measured bead**. A bead in a target image that Aurora Imaging Library verifies.
- **Measured point**. A trained point's corresponding point found (or expected) on a measured bead.
- **Path**. The continuous sequence of positions that the bead follows.
- **Point**. A positional element along a bead.
- **Search box**. The region in the image in which to extract a point along the bead. The portion of the bead, corresponding to the search box of a point, can be referred to as a slice.
- **Stripe**. A bead consisting of two edges; the distance between the edges is the bead's width.
- **Target image**. The image in which to measure and validate beads during the verification phase.
- **Trained bead**. A template that has been trained (contains the trained points), which allows you to use it for the verification of a bead.
- **Trained points**. Points contained in a template, generated by the training phase, and used for the verification of a bead. Each trained point is associated with the width and height of the bead slice from which it was extracted (search box).
- **Training (phase)**. The operation that uses all training specifications to generate the trained bead template(s).
  *[Image: BeadBasicConceptsTrainingPhase.png]*
- **Training image**. An ideal image of beads, which you can use during the training phase to train the templates and establish their trained points.
- **Verification (phase)**. The operation that analyzes beads in the target image and validates whether they conform to the specified bead template.
  *[Image: BeadBasicConceptsVerificationPhase.png]*
- **Vertices**. Positional points added to a bead template to define its path.
