---
doctype: BoardSpecificNotes
part: ""
chapter: Rapixo-CXP
section: Additional_Rapixo-CXP_notes_User_guide
module_tag: null
product: Aurora-Imaging-Library-board-specific-notes
version: 1100
path: "BoardSpecificNotes /  / rapixo-cxp / Additional Rapixo-CXP notes User guide"
---

# Miscellaneous user guide information for Zebra Rapixo CXP

This section includes additional user guide information for Zebra Rapixo CXP. The information found in this section might be a reiteration of content previously documented.

## Supported standards and development kit

Zebra Rapixo CXP supports the following standards:

- JIIA CoaXPress Standard version 2.0.
- GenICam GenApi version 3.4.2.
- GenICam Standard Feature Naming Convention (SFNC) version 2.7.
- GenICam GenTL version 1.6.

Zebra Rapixo CXP supports Zebra FPGA Development Kit (FDK) version 22.2 and later.

## Additional features and improvements

The following are additional features supported for Zebra Rapixo CXP:

- Support for scatter-gather DMA transfers. Grabbing into paged buffers (**M_PAGED** attribute). By default, **M_GRAB** buffers are allocated in non-paged memory. If the non-paged memory is set to 0, then the default becomes paged memory.
- Support for acquisition from 14-bit monochrome and Bayer cameras.
- Increased Bayer demosaicing line width support to 16KB on Zebra Rapixo CXP-6 models and 32KB on Zebra Rapixo CXP-12 models.
- Support for CXP TapGeometry cameras (including 1X-2YE).
- Support for auxiliary IO debouncing.
- Support for dynamically changing the duration of a timer while it is grabbing.
- Support for GenICam GenTL Producer, specifically for the Data Stream and Buffer modules.

The following lists Zebra Rapixo CXP improvements:

- You can perform firmware updates without the need to power-cycle the computer.
- Aurora Imaging Gecho Viewer includes visualization of hardware events, such as triggers, timers, I/Os, and acquisition events.

## Aurora Imaging Configurator

The Boards Information utility is integrated in Aurora Imaging Configurator for Zebra Rapixo CXP. It it located under **Boards**, then Rapixo CXP. The utility displays board information and details of the PUs (processing units) and TUs (transfer units) implemented in the firmware for Zebra Rapixo CXP Pro using the Zebra FDK.

## Aurora Imaging Capture Works

The following are additional features supported for Zebra Rapixo CXP in Aurora Imaging Capture Works:

- Multi-stream cameras (up to 9 streams are available for one camera). When using more than one camera, there must be at least one stream per camera. The number of remaining streams can be distributed among rest of the cameras.
- Exchanging files with the camera.

## Aurora Imaging Gecho Viewer

Aurora Imaging Gecho Viewer is an application used to control and display event logging information gathered by Aurora Imaging Gecho. To access Aurora Imaging Gecho Viewer, launch Aurora Imaging Configurator. Then, expand the **Boards** item in the tree structure, navigate to **Rapixo series**, then **CXP**. Gecho Viewer will be visible in the Launch External Applications page.

Aurora Imaging Gecho Viewer features:

- Visualize with high precision hardware events received and generated by the frame grabber, such as AuxIO changes, timers, CXP triggers, CXP protocol and connection issues, and grabbing events.
- Visualize software events, such as camera and digitizer communication, grab and hook events, issues and warnings like disconnection or missed frames.
- Example tracing (logging samples) for when the camera disconnects, frames that are missed by hardware overtriggering, and frames missed by software latency.

## Particularities

The default time period from PoCXP voltage application where over-current condition is ignored is 512 ms. At the initial period following PoCXP application, the voltage might induce a punctual over-current due to the initial in-rush current (to charge the line capacitance), which might be followed by secondary over-currents caused by the activation of a camera's power supplies.
