---
doctype: UserGuide
part: "Miscellaneous"
chapter: Development_and_Debugging_Tools_and_Techniques
section: Profiler
module_tag: null
product: Aurora-Imaging-Library-user-guide
version: 1100
path: "UserGuide / Miscellaneous / debugging_tools / Profiler"
---

# Aurora Imaging Profiler and trace logs

To analyze your application's execution, for debugging or optimization, you can generate a trace log that contains information such as when each Aurora Imaging Library function call in each thread starts and stops. Aurora Imaging Profiler is a utility that creates and graphically displays trace logs. In addition to Aurora Imaging Profiler, there are functions that can create or enhance trace logs.

## Trace logs with Aurora Imaging Profiler

Aurora Imaging Profiler is a graphical tool that generates and graphically displays trace logs. It is accessible from the tools section of the Aurora Imaging Control Center when running any Microsoft Windows operating system. When running Linux, you must use a different mechanism (discussed later) to generate the trace log and then you can use Aurora Imaging Profiler under a Microsoft Windows operating system to display the trace log. For more information, see [Generating a new trace log under Linux](S01_Profiler.md).

### Generating a new trace log with Aurora Imaging Profiler

When using Aurora Imaging Profiler to generate a new trace log, you must open the tool and start the log before you run the code that should be traced. To create a new trace log, choose **Generate New Trace** from the **File** menu of Aurora Imaging Profiler. You can also click on the **New Trace** icon or press **Ctrl-N**. The **Trace Generation** dialog box will appear, which you must keep open until the initialization of your application (that is, an application context has been allocated), although you can keep the dialog box open during the execution of your code.

In the **Trace Generation** dialog box, you can choose to save trace information to file or to memory. Generating a trace to memory has the advantage that it is faster than generating a trace to file. Another advantage is that, as long as either your application or Aurora Imaging Profiler is open, the memory in which the trace log is allocated will remain reserved for that purpose and the trace will continue. You could close Aurora Imaging Profiler, re-open it, and pick up the same trace log to see the latest trace element (that is, the latest activity within your program). Alternatively, while keeping Aurora Imaging Profiler open, you can click on **Reload** at any time to see the latest activity in the trace log. This allows you to pick up the trace log in the middle of a program and evaluate it. The disadvantage of generating a trace to memory is that it is almost impossible to store the complete trace of your program within the allocated memory; at some point, the memory will get overwritten with the latest trace elements. If there are moments in the application for which you want to review the trace, you can save the data that is currently in the circular memory buffer to file using [`M_TRACE_SAVE_TO_FILE`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md) as shown in [Advanced memory tracing](S01_Profiler.md). On the other hand, generating a trace to file will save a complete trace of your program, starting from when the trace was enabled. For more information about saving a trace to file, see [Trace logs with or without Aurora Imaging Profiler](S01_Profiler.md).

If you choose to generate a trace to memory, you can choose the type and size of memory in which to store the trace(s), or you can choose to use the default options. You can either choose to allocate the trace log in shared memory or non-paged memory (if the Aurora Imaging Library non-paged memory manager driver has been installed; for more information, see [Advanced memory management](../C23_Data_buffers/S18_Advanced_memory_management.md)). An advantage to allocating the trace log in non-paged memory is that, in the event of a crash, the trace can be recovered from the dump file generated by Windows (assuming that generating a kernel dump file upon a Windows crash has been enabled for your computer).

By default, Aurora Imaging Profiler tracks many types of program data. You can be more selective by clicking on the **Select the types of elements to include in the trace** button in the **Trace Generation** dialog box before running your application.

> **Note:** Note that when an application context is initially allocated, [`MappAlloc`](../../Reference/app/MappAlloc.md) can be set to [`M_TRACE_LOG_DISABLE`](../../Reference/app/MappAlloc.md), which automatically disables the generation of any trace logs. Once disabled, Aurora Imaging Profiler will not be able to generate a trace log without you calling [`MappControl`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md) with [`M_TRACE`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md) set to [`M_LOG_ENABLE`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md). Note that if Aurora Imaging Profiler is not open, this will start generating a trace log to file. See[](S01_Profiler.md) for more information. Disabling the automatic generation of a trace log with [`M_TRACE_LOG_DISABLE`](../../Reference/app/MappAlloc.md) will help protect your intellectual property against reverse engineering.

### Reading a trace log

Once a trace log has been generated, it can be examined with Aurora Imaging Profiler by clicking on **Load** from the **Trace Generation** dialog box. This will bring you to the main Aurora Imaging Profiler window in which you can evaluate your trace log. A trace log can display multiple concurrent threads, each with sequential function calls and other useful information, such as pop-up messages or errors, all placed in a single time frame. The information is organized in stacks of rows, with each row representing a thread. In each row, there are blocks that represent function calls or other information. Within the blocks, there can be other blocks, such as display update blocks, as shown in the image below. These inner blocks are within a larger block because the inner blocks represent operations that are called by the outer block, and they start and stop within the time frame of the outer block.

The following image displays a trace log with five threads. The top row is the first thread that allocates the other four threads. The bottom thread is not being displayed since its display was toggled using the arrow next to the thread's name; collapsing blocks allows you to examine only the threads of interest.

*[Image: Profiler1.png]*

The time frame of the trace log is found above the top thread and is measured in seconds. You can zoom in or out, expanding or contracting the time frame, using the zoom buttons in the toolbar, or by scrolling with your mouse wheel. There could be many function calls that don't appear when viewed in one time frame, and then become apparent only when zooming in on an area; if you zoom out, they will disappear again. The following image displays the same trace log as above, only with a different time frame. Note the time frame has a different number of decimal places.

*[Image: Profiler2.png]*

You can get additional information about a block by selecting it. The information includes the function call with the parameter values, the precise start and stop time for the function, and can include additional parameter details, such as an _AIL_ID_ associated with the call. You can find this information at the bottom of the window. You can search for a particular function call or _AIL_ID_ using the search pane on the right.

## Trace logs to file with or without Aurora Imaging Profiler

To generate a trace log to file without Aurora Imaging Profiler, you must enable tracing by calling [`MappControl`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md) with [`M_TRACE`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md) set to [`M_LOG_ENABLE`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md). A trace log will be generated from the point in your code that this call appears until the end of the application, or until you call [`MappControl`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md) with [`M_TRACE`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md) set to [`M_LOG_DISABLE`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md), whichever comes first. The trace log is stored as a binary file that can only be read by Aurora Imaging Profiler. The trace log's file name includes the name of the application it traced, and has a _.mtrace_ extension, located in the _%temp%_ directory.

> **Note:** Note that since the trace log is written to file, calls to [`MappControl`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md) with [`M_TRACE`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md) set to [`M_LOG_ENABLE`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md) in your code will generate a new trace log file each time the code is run, which could fill your available storage unnecessarily.

When tracing to file, you can use[`MappControl`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md) with[`M_TRACE_SAVE_TO_FILE`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md) to force all outstanding writes to be performed to the trace log file. This allows you to access trace data even if the application crashes after the call.

To generate a trace log to file with Aurora Imaging Profiler, choose **Trace to file** in the **Trace Generation** dialog box. The trace log is stored in a hidden folder called _C:\ProgramData\Aurora Imaging Library\&lt;version number>\Profiler_.

## Advanced trace log options

There are several functions that can be helpful when generating a trace log with either Aurora Imaging Profiler or with Aurora Imaging Library functions. These functions allow you to limit the scope of the trace log to blocks of code, add user markers or sections that are read by the trace log, and get time stamps from the trace timer.

### Trace logs in a multi-thread environment

By default, all threads in a multi-thread environment share the same global trace state, either enabled or disabled. If any thread calls [`MappControl`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md) with [`M_TRACE`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md), the global trace state is changed, which affects all threads equally.

If a thread calls [`MappControl`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md) with [`M_TRACE`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md)+[`M_THREAD_CURRENT`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md) set to either [`M_LOG_ENABLE`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md) or [`M_LOG_DISABLE`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md), the thread creates its own thread trace state. The thread trace state supercedes the global trace state for that thread. For example, if the global trace state for the application is currently set to disabled, but one thread has an independent thread trace state set to enabled, the trace log will only be filled with trace data from that one thread, leaving all other threads untraced.

When allocating a new thread using [`MthrAlloc`](../../Reference/thr/MthrAlloc.md) with [`M_THREAD`](../../Reference/thr/MthrAlloc.md) or [`M_SELECTABLE_THREAD`](../../Reference/thr/MthrAlloc.md), you can choose to use the default initialization state or you can choose to disable the creation of trace logs ([`M_TRACE_LOG_DISABLE`](../../Reference/thr/MthrAlloc.md)) for that thread. In effect this allows newly allocated traces to create an independent thread trace state. Once a thread has created its own independent thread trace state, it remains independent, regardless of changes to the global trace state. For example, if one thread calls [`MappControl`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md) with [`M_TRACE`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md) + [`M_THREAD_CURRENT`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md) set to [`M_LOG_ENABLE`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md), that thread will be traced. If afterwards any thread (including the independent thread) calls [`MappControl`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md) with [`M_TRACE`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md) set to [`M_LOG_DISABLE`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md), the thread with the independent thread trace state will remain enabled.

Once a thread has its own thread trace state, it remains independent until the thread calls [`MappControl`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md) with [`M_TRACE`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md)+[`M_THREAD_CURRENT`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md) set to [`M_DEFAULT`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md). This sets the thread trace state to the global thread state, and the thread is no longer independent.

> **Note:** Note that if the application has been set to disable all trace logs, and you allocate a new thread using [`MthrAlloc`](../../Reference/thr/MthrAlloc.md) with [`M_THREAD`](../../Reference/thr/MthrAlloc.md) or [`M_SELECTABLE_THREAD`](../../Reference/thr/MthrAlloc.md) which then calls [`MappControl`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md) with [`M_TRACE`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md) + [`M_THREAD_CURRENT`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md) set to [`M_DEFAULT`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md), even while running Aurora Imaging Profiler, nothing will happen because you have not enabled the global trace.

### Trace-enabled/disabled blocks of code

By default, Aurora Imaging Profiler starts a trace upon the execution of your application and continues for the entire execution. However, your application can be configured to limit the trace to a block of code inside your application. You can create a block of code that is either trace-enabled, where only the code within the block will generate trace log data, or trace-disabled, where all your application code except that which is in the block will generate trace log data.

To create a trace-enabled block of code, which will generate trace data only for the code within the block, you must first disable the trace when you allocate your application context ([`MappAlloc`](../../Reference/app/MappAlloc.md) with [`M_TRACE_LOG_DISABLE`](../../Reference/app/MappAlloc.md)). Then, you can create a trace-enabled block by calling [`MappControl`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md) with [`M_TRACE`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md)+[`M_THREAD_CURRENT`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md) set to [`M_LOG_ENABLE`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md) at the start of the block and then call [`MappControl`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md) with [`M_TRACE`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md)+[`M_THREAD_CURRENT`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md) set to [`M_LOG_DISABLE`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md) at the end. When you run Aurora Imaging Profiler, only the portion of the code inside the block will be logged.

Conversely, to keep a portion of your code from being traced while tracing the rest of your application, you can create a trace-disabled block of code. By default, Aurora Imaging Profiler will start tracing at the beginning of the application, so the first mention of the trace-disabled block is at the start of the block. At the start of the trace-disabled block of code, call [`MappControl`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md) with [`M_TRACE`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md)+[`M_THREAD_CURRENT`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md) set to [`M_LOG_DISABLE`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md) and finish the block with [`MappControl`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md) with [`M_TRACE`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md)+[`M_THREAD_CURRENT`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md) set to [`M_LOG_ENABLE`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md).

As expected, when generating a trace to memory, tracing continues from where it left off in the circular buffer when tracing is enabled.

To determine if a thread is currently tracing a particular block of code, you can call [`MappInquire`](../../Reference/app/MappInquire.md) with [`M_TRACE_ACTIVE`](../../Reference/app/MappInquire.md). This inquire type will indicate whether the current thread is actively tracing ([`M_YES`](../../Reference/app/MappInquire.md)) the portion of code being executed or not ([`M_NO`](../../Reference/app/MappInquire.md)). This inquire type is recommended over using [`M_TRACE`](../../Reference/app/MappInquire.md) because it will return [`M_YES`](../../Reference/app/MappInquire.md) or [`M_NO`](../../Reference/app/MappInquire.md) as opposed to possibly returning [`M_DEFAULT`](../../Reference/app/MappInquire.md).

When creating trace-enabled/disabled blocks of code for multi-threaded applications, you typically generate trace-enabled/disabled blocks for a specific thread using[`M_TRACE`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md)+[`M_THREAD_CURRENT`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md). Specifying [`M_THREAD_CURRENT`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md) when starting or stopping trace log data generation will limit the trace-enabled/disabled block of code to the thread that called it. All other threads will continue to generate or not generate trace log data, based on the global trace state. However, if you specify only [`M_TRACE`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md), when a enabled/disabled block is entered, data will be logged or disabled for all threads that do not have an independent thread trace state, regardless of which thread specified the enabled/disabled block.

### Trace markers

You can fine tune the trace log data, regardless of whether the log was generated using Aurora Imaging Profiler or with Aurora Imaging Library functions. [`MappTrace`](../../Reference/app/MappTrace.md) helps identify important pieces of code by creating a marker or section near or surrounding your code. Place [`MappTrace`](../../Reference/app/MappTrace.md) next to a piece of code that needs attention. You can also create a section by calling [`MappTrace`](../../Reference/app/MappTrace.md) twice, once before the code to observe, and once after it, setting [`TraceType`](../../Reference/app/MappTrace.md) to [`M_TRACE_SECTION_START`](../../Reference/app/MappTrace.md) and [`M_TRACE_SECTION_END`](../../Reference/app/MappTrace.md), respectively. You can identify the marker or section by passing [`MappTrace`](../../Reference/app/MappTrace.md) a tag (a unique value). Once the trace log is generated, you will be able to search for the markers and sections you created.

For each marker or section, you can also specify a value or string to associate with it, using [`TraceValue`](../../Reference/app/MappTrace.md) and/or [`TraceString`](../../Reference/app/MappTrace.md), respectively. Typically, these values would relate to the code that the marker or section identifies, such as a return value, intermediate result, or some other relevant value or string.

You can also add additional information to the trace tag by setting [`TraceType`](../../Reference/app/MappTrace.md) to [`M_TRACE_SET_TAG_INFORMATION`](../../Reference/app/MappTrace.md). This allows you to set a name and/or a color to associate with a particular trace tag. All trace markers or sections that have the same tag will have the same name and/or color associated with it.

### Advanced memory tracing

In [](S01_Profiler.md), it was discussed that one of the disadvantages of generating traces to memory is that it is almost inevitable that the reserved memory will be filled at some point and get overwritten with newer data. To evaluate sections of code that are of particular interest, you can choose to save that particular portion of the trace to file using [`M_TRACE_SAVE_TO_FILE`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md). This control type will copy the contents of the trace logs' circular memory buffer into an _.mtrace_ file, which can then be read with Aurora Imaging Profiler. This is useful when you are trying to debug a particular segment of your application. As has been previously discussed, the trace file will only contain the most recent trace elements and not the complete application due to the limitations of tracing to memory.

### User-defined trace log

You can create your own user-defined trace log, which you can compare to the trace log created with Aurora Imaging Profiler. One way to do this is to hook a user-defined function to [`MappHookFunction`](../../Reference/app/MappHookFunction.md) with [`HookType`](../../Reference/app/MappHookFunction.md) set to [`M_TRACE_START`](../../Reference/app/MappHookFunction.md) or [`M_TRACE_END`](../../Reference/app/MappHookFunction.md). To compare your user-defined trace log with the trace log created with Aurora Imaging Profiler, it can be useful to add time stamps to your user-defined trace log. Insert these time stamps in your code using [`MappTimer`](../../Reference/app/MappTimer.md)with [`M_TIMER_READ`](../../Reference/app/MappTimer.md)+[`M_TRACE`](../../Reference/app/MappTimer.md). Note that Aurora Imaging Profiler uses [`MappTimer`](../../Reference/app/MappTimer.md) with an [`M_TRACE`](../../Reference/app/MappTimer.md) timer to generate its internal time stamps.

## Generating a new trace log under Linux

Aurora Imaging Profiler is a tool used to create and read trace logs, but it only functions in a Microsoft Windows environment. Under Linux, there is another tool to create the trace logs, but you will still need to run Aurora Imaging Profiler in Windows to read the trace log.

To create a trace log under Linux, open the Aurora Imaging Configurator utility. From there, there is an option called**AIL Profiler trace**. When selected, click on the **Start interactive trace** button in the presented dialog. A **Trace Generation** dialog box appears. This dialog box instructs you to run your code while the dialog box is open. While the dialog box is open, and the code is running, a trace is generated. When you either close the dialog or terminate your running program, the trace log stops being generated and is saved in a directory whose path appears in the Aurora Imaging Configurator utility.

## Using Aurora Imaging Profiler in a Distributed Aurora Imaging Library environment

When tracing a Distributed Aurora Imaging Library cluster, you can generate trace logs, but each computer, local and remote, must run its own instance of Aurora Imaging Profiler. Each computer will generate its own trace log and will collect information specific to itself only. Note that asynchronous functions called from the local computer, but run on a remote computer, will appear to have a very short duration. This does not represent the time taken to run the function, but only the time taken to offload the function to the remote computer. The duration of that function would appear in the trace log of the remote computer on which it was run.

## Interactive log

While troubleshooting with Zebra technical support, you might be instructed to create an interactive log, which contains a trace log. From the Aurora Imaging Configurator utility, click on the **Troubleshooting** tab and then click on the **Generate an Interactive log** button. This opens a dialog box that instructs you to run your code while the dialog box is open. While the dialog box is open, and the code is running, an interactive log is generated. When you either close the dialog box or terminate your running program, the interactive log stops being generated and is saved in a directory whose path appears in the Aurora Imaging Configurator utility.

The result of running an interactive log is a _Sysinfo_ file. This _Sysinfo_ file cannot be read by Aurora Imaging Profiler and should be sent to Zebra for troubleshooting. Note that to limit the tracing information contained in the interactive log, you should create a block of code that is either trace-enabled, where only the code within the block will generate trace log data, or trace-disabled, where all the code except within the block will generate trace log data. For information on these code blocks, see [Trace-enabled/disabled blocks of code](S01_Profiler.md).

You should use Aurora Imaging Profiler and optionally a user-defined trace log for your own tracing needs.
