---
doctype: UserGuide
part: "Miscellaneous"
chapter: Development_and_Debugging_Tools_and_Techniques
section: Errors
module_tag: null
product: Aurora-Imaging-Library-user-guide
version: 1100
path: "UserGuide / Miscellaneous / debugging_tools / Errors"
---

# Aurora Imaging Library errors

Aurora Imaging Library provides tools for detecting errors generated by calls to functions.

## Types of errors

Errors are broadly classed as either API errors which result from passing invalid values to a parameter of a function, or production errors which result from unexpected events (for example, communication with your camera timing out during a grab). You can use similar techniques (detailed later in this section) to detect both types of errors.

### API errors

An API error is a runtime error caused by an improper call to a function. An API error occurs when you have passed the correct number and type of values to a function (allowing you to compile your application), but one or more of the values you passed is not supported by the function. API errors must be resolved during development, before you deploy your application.

> **Note:** You can disable Aurora Imaging Library's internal checks for API errors using[`MappControl`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md)with [`M_PARAMETER`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md) and [`M_CHECK_DISABLE`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md). This improves the performance of your application, but will lead to undefined behavior if your application contains API errors. You should ensure that these checks are not disabled when developing, modifying, or debugging your application.

The following are common examples of API errors:

- **Passing the identifier an object of the wrong type**. An identifier can potentially refer to any type of Aurora Imaging Library object. However, most function parameters only accept one or two types of object. Passing the identifier of an object of the wrong type to a function will generate an error.
  For example, in the following code snippet, the identifier of a system is incorrectly passed to [`MdigFree`](../../Reference/dig/MdigFree.md) (which requires the identifier of a digitizer):
  > **Code example:** [userguide.ail_system_incorrectly_passed_to_dig_free](userguide.ail_system_incorrectly_passed_to_dig_free)
  Note that this error is easy to identify because the variable name`AilSystem`incorporates the type of the object it identifies. Typically, you should follow a similar convention when naming variables in your application. Additionally, you should only use an_AIL_ID_variable to store identifiers for a single type of Aurora Imaging Library object.
  You can check the object type for any identifier using [`MobjInquire`](../../Reference/obj/MobjInquire.md)with[`M_OBJECT_TYPE`](../../Reference/obj/MobjInquire.md).
- **Passing unavailable values to dependent parameters**. For many functions, the value passed to one parameter changes which values can be passed to another parameter. These are referred as independent parameters and dependent parameters, respectively. Passing an unsupported value to a dependent parameter will generate an error.
  For example, if you set the [`ControlType`](../../Reference/disp/MdispControl.md)parameter of[`MdispControl`](../../Reference/disp/MdispControl.md) to[`M_BACKGROUND_COLOR`](../../Reference/disp/MdispControl.md), you can set the[`ControlValue`](../../Reference/disp/MdispControl.md) parameter to a value that indicates a color (such as[`M_COLOR_MAGENTA`](../../Reference/disp/MdispControl.md)). However, if you set the [`ControlType`](../../Reference/disp/MdispControl.md)parameter to [`M_KEYBOARD_USE`](../../Reference/disp/MdispControl.md), different settings are available for the [`ControlValue`](../../Reference/disp/MdispControl.md) parameter (such as [`M_ENABLE`](../../Reference/disp/MdispControl.md)).
  In another example, the [`ImageOrGraphicListId`](../../Reference/buf/MbufSetRegion.md) parameter of [`MbufSetRegion`](../../Reference/buf/MbufSetRegion.md) requires that you pass a different type of object depending on the setting of the[`Operation`](../../Reference/buf/MbufSetRegion.md)parameter. If you set the [`Operation`](../../Reference/buf/MbufSetRegion.md) parameter to [`M_RASTERIZE`](../../Reference/buf/MbufSetRegion.md), you can set the [`ImageOrGraphicListId`](../../Reference/buf/MbufSetRegion.md)parameter to the identifier of either an image buffer or a 2D graphics list (or [`M_NULL`](../../Reference/buf/MbufSetRegion.md)). However, if you set the[`Operation`](../../Reference/buf/MbufSetRegion.md) parameter to [`M_NO_RASTERIZE`](../../Reference/buf/MbufSetRegion.md), you must set the [`ImageOrGraphicListId`](../../Reference/buf/MbufSetRegion.md)parameter to the identifier of a 2D graphics list.
- **Passing data of the incorrect type to void pointer parameters**. Some function parameters require you to pass a _void *_ that points to data of a specific type. The required type of the data changes depending on the settings you use for other parameters. Passing a pointer to the wrong type of data can sometimes generate an error.
  > **Note:** Passing a pointer to the wrong type of data does not always generate an error in C. However, in C++, this type of error is detected by default using the optional**M_AIL_USE_SAFE_TYPE** extension. For more information, see [M_AIL_USE_SAFE_TYPE extension](../C02_Building_an_application/S16_Custom_data_types_extensions_and_portability_functions.md).
  For example, if you set the [`InquireType`](../../Reference/buf/MbufInquire.md)parameter of[`MbufInquire`](../../Reference/buf/MbufInquire.md) to[`M_SIZE_X`](../../Reference/buf/MbufInquire.md), you should set the [`UserVarPtr`](../../Reference/buf/MbufInquire.md)parameter to the address of an _AIL_INT_. However, if you set the [`InquireType`](../../Reference/buf/MbufInquire.md)parameter to [`M_MAX`](../../Reference/buf/MbufInquire.md), you should set the [`UserVarPtr`](../../Reference/buf/MbufInquire.md)parameter to the address of an _AIL_DOUBLE_.

### Production errors

A production error is a runtime error caused by unexpected circumstances (typically, a disconnected device or lack of hardware resources) that prevent a function from completing its task. While you should always work to prevent production errors, it is good practice to check for these errors in your application and take appropriate action when they occur.

> **Note:** If a production error occurs, any objects you passed to the function are in an undefined state (though in many cases they will not be modified).

The following are common examples of production errors:

- **Connection errors**. Some functions involve interaction with an external device (typically a camera). If communication with a device is interrupted before the function returns (either due to an orderly disconnect or timeout), the function will generate an error.
  > **Note:** Typically, functions that involve interaction with an external device are executed asynchronously. There are additional considerations for handling errors with asynchronous functions. For more information see [Asynchronous Aurora Imaging Library functions](S03_Errors.md).
- **Insufficient non-paged memory**. Some functions, particularly those which allocate objects, internally allocate non-paged memory. If insufficient free memory is available, the function will generate an error.
  > **Note:** Even if there is sufficient total memory available, an error will still be generated if there is not a large enough contiguous block of non-paged memory available to allocate required internal data buffers. For more information see [Large non-paged Aurora Imaging Library buffers](../C23_Data_buffers/S18_Advanced_memory_management.md).
- **Storage access errors**. Some functions load or save files to non-volatile storage (such as a hard drive or solid state drive). If the read or write operation fails (for example, because the specified path was invalid, there is insufficient space available, or a network drive disconnected), the function will generate an error.

## Detecting Aurora Imaging Library errors

Aurora Imaging Library provides several means of detecting errors.

- **Printed error messages**. By default, any time Aurora Imaging Library encounters an error it will open a dialog box to present the error message. Execution of the thread that generated the error halts until the dialog box is closed. This is useful during development, but you should typically disable it in the deployed version of your application (using[`MappControl`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md)with [`M_ERROR`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md)). Instead, you should detect errors using the other methods described in this subsection.
- **Checking for errors after each function call**. After each call to a function, you can check whether an error was generated using [`MappGetError`](../../Reference/app/MappGetError.md) with [`M_CURRENT`](../../Reference/app/MappGetError.md). If the last function call from the current thread generated an error, the error code is returned; otherwise, **M_NULL_ERROR**is returned.
  In the following example, the current error is requested after each function call to determine whether the function was successful:
  > **Code example:** [userguide.current_error_requested_after_each_function_call](userguide.current_error_requested_after_each_function_call)
  > **Note:** There are additional considerations if you call functions that are executed asynchronously. For more information see [Asynchronous Aurora Imaging Library functions](S03_Errors.md).
- **Checking for errors after several function calls**. After calling several functions in sequence, you can check whether an error was generated by any of the functions using [`MappGetError`](../../Reference/app/MappGetError.md) with [`M_GLOBAL`](../../Reference/app/MappGetError.md). If any function call (from the current thread) generated an error since the last call to [`MappGetError`](../../Reference/app/MappGetError.md) with [`M_GLOBAL`](../../Reference/app/MappGetError.md), the error code of the first error that was generated is returned; otherwise, **M_NULL_ERROR** is returned.
  > **Note:** You can determine which function generated the error using [`MappGetError`](../../Reference/app/MappGetError.md) with [`M_GLOBAL_OPCODE`](../../Reference/app/MappGetError.md); for more information, see [Interpreting error codes, subcodes, and opcodes](S03_Errors.md).
  It is not possible to retrieve additional information about errors other than the first error that was generated. If you need to retrieve information about all errors, you should use one of the other methods described in this section to detect those errors.
  In the following example, the global error is used to determine if either of two functions generated an error:
  > **Code example:** [userguide.global_errors_is_used_to_determine_functions_generate_error](userguide.global_errors_is_used_to_determine_functions_generate_error)
  > **Note:** There are additional considerations if you call functions that are execute asynchronously. For more information see [Asynchronous Aurora Imaging Library functions](S03_Errors.md).
- **Hooking a function to Aurora Imaging Library errors**. You can hook a function to errors using [`MappHookFunction`](../../Reference/app/MappHookFunction.md)with [`M_ERROR_CURRENT`](../../Reference/app/MappHookFunction.md) or [`M_ERROR_FATAL`](../../Reference/app/MappHookFunction.md)(optionally, limited to errors generated by the current thread using [`M_THREAD_CURRENT`](../../Reference/app/MappHookFunction.md)). When an error occurs, the function you hooked is called immediately (before any other error detection mechanism is activated). This allows you to have a centralized model for handling errors.
  Within the hook-handler function, you can use [`MappGetHookInfo`](../../Reference/app/MappGetHookInfo.md)to learn the error code, error subcodes, and associated messages of the error that caused the hook-handler function to be called.
  The following line of code hooks an error handling function to all Aurora Imaging Library errors.
  > **Code example:** [userguide.code_hooks_an_error_handling_function_to_all_ail_errors](userguide.code_hooks_an_error_handling_function_to_all_ail_errors)
  The following hook-handler function prints the main error message to the console:
  > **Code example:** [userguide.hook_handler_function_prints_main_error_message_to_console](userguide.hook_handler_function_prints_main_error_message_to_console)
  > **Note:** You can determine which function generated the error using [`MappGetHookInfo`](../../Reference/app/MappGetHookInfo.md) with [`M_CURRENT_OPCODE`](../../Reference/app/MappGetHookInfo.md); for more information, see [Interpreting error codes, subcodes, and opcodes](S03_Errors.md).
- **Handling exceptions**. When using .NET and Python, you can request that functions throw standard exceptions. To do so, use[`MappControl`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md)with[`M_ERROR`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md) set to[`M_THROW_EXCEPTION`](../../Reference/app/MappControl.md). You can then use standard try/catch blocks to handle errors in your application. For more information, see [Error handling](../C60_Using_AIL_with_NET/S08_Error_handling.md) or [Exception handling in Aurora Imaging Library](../C59_Using_AIL_with_Python/S03_AIL_functions_and_constants_in_Python.md).

## Interpreting error codes, subcodes, and opcodes

When an error is generated, information about the error is stored as a main error code and an error message, as well as between 0 and 3 error subcodes and error messages. To learn the main error code or error subcode of an error, use [`MappGetError`](../../Reference/app/MappGetError.md) with [`M_CURRENT`](../../Reference/app/MappGetError.md) or [`M_GLOBAL`](../../Reference/app/MappGetError.md) (or[`MappGetHookInfo`](../../Reference/app/MappGetHookInfo.md)within a hook-handler function that you have hooked to error events using [`MappHookFunction`](../../Reference/app/MappHookFunction.md)). To learn the message associated with the main error code or error subcode, use the [`M_MESSAGE`](../../Reference/app/MappGetError.md) combination value.

In some cases, there are multiple possible main error codes for a given type of error (such as an out of memory error or device timeout error). For user-defined functions and some modules, it is also not guaranteed that a given error subcode is always associated with the same message (even for the same main error code). The most reliable way to determine the nature of an error is to inquire the associated message. You can find the message strings used for many types of errors in _ailerr.h_. Note that, in some cases, similar errors will be associated with different error messages depending on which type of Aurora Imaging Library system generates the error.

> **Note:** In some cases, one of the subcode error messages indicates the name of the system that generated the error. This information is always stored in the first otherwise unused error subcode (typically, error subcode 2).

You can determine which function generated an error by requesting the associated function opcode (using [`MappGetError`](../../Reference/app/MappGetError.md) or [`MappGetHookInfo`](../../Reference/app/MappGetHookInfo.md)with [`M_CURRENT_OPCODE`](../../Reference/app/MappGetError.md)or[`M_GLOBAL_OPCODE`](../../Reference/app/MappGetError.md)). To learn which function corresponds to each opcode, refer to _ailfunctioncode.h_.

In the following example, different error handling code is used depending on whether the error was generated by the allocation or grabbing function.

> **Code example:** [userguide.different_error_handling_code_used_generated_allocation_or_grabbing](userguide.different_error_handling_code_used_generated_allocation_or_grabbing)

## Asynchronous Aurora Imaging Library functions

Some functions are executed asynchronously (especially when executed on a board or Distributed Aurora Imaging Library system). This means that they internally generate a new thread to complete their task, and they return before the task is completed. In general, you do not need to be aware of whether a function is executed asynchronously because synchronous functions are not executed until all asynchronous functions called from the current thread have completed.

> **Note:** Most functions that do not return a value are executed asynchronously.

By default[`MappGetError`](../../Reference/app/MappGetError.md)is executed asynchronously and therefore might not return the most recent error after a call to an asynchronous function. You can specify to execute [`MappGetError`](../../Reference/app/MappGetError.md) synchronously using [`M_SYNCHRONOUS`](../../Reference/app/MappGetError.md). In this case, [`MappGetError`](../../Reference/app/MappGetError.md), will wait for any asynchronous functions called by the current thread to complete their task before retrieving error information.

When you call [`MappGetError`](../../Reference/app/MappGetError.md)with [`M_SYNCHRONOUS`](../../Reference/app/MappGetError.md), the function waits for completion of all asynchronous functions executing on all systems. If you have allocated multiple Distributed Aurora Imaging Library systems, or multiple systems that perform onboard processing (for example, using an FPGA), this can significantly impact performance of your application. Instead, you can wait for only the asynchronous functions being executed by the system associated with the last function call using [`MthrWait`](../../Reference/thr/MthrWait.md) with [`M_THREAD_WAIT`](../../Reference/thr/MthrWait.md) and the [`ThreadOrEventId`](../../Reference/thr/MthrWait.md)parameter set to the identifier of the system. You can then retrieve the error code for the last function by calling [`MappGetError`](../../Reference/app/MappGetError.md) (without [`M_SYNCHRONOUS`](../../Reference/app/MappGetError.md)) immediately after.

The following example calls two asynchronous functions to be executed on different Distributed Aurora Imaging Library systems; it then waits only for the first function to be completed before requesting the error code associated with it. In this case, the operation performed by the second call to [`MimConvolve`](../../Reference/im/MimConvolve.md) might not yet be completed when the error code is retrieved.

> **Code example:** [userguide.order_of_function_calls_error_for_asynchronous_functions](userguide.order_of_function_calls_error_for_asynchronous_functions)

> **Note:** Note that [`MthrWait`](../../Reference/thr/MthrWait.md) will not wait for grabbing operations that are performed asynchronously (for example, using [`MdigProcess`](../../Reference/dig/MdigProcess.md)with [`M_ASYNCHRONOUS`](../../Reference/dig/MdigProcess.md)).

## Errors in multi-threaded applications

If your application uses multiple threads, each thread must handle its own errors. You can only retrieve information about errors generated within the current thread using[`MappGetError`](../../Reference/app/MappGetError.md). If you hook a function to errors using [`MappHookFunction`](../../Reference/app/MappHookFunction.md), the thread in which an error is generated will not continue until the hook-handler function returns (the hook-handler function is executed on that thread). However, other threads are unaffected; execution of those threads will continue.

## Errors in user-defined Aurora Imaging Library functions

If you create a user-defined function using the [`Mfunc...`](../../Reference/func/MfuncAlloc.md)functions, you can generate errors from within the user-defined function. This allows you to handle errors in both user-defined and regular functions using the same mechanisms. For more information about errors in user-defined functions, see [Modules, opcodes, and error handling](../C68_The_AIL_function_development_module/S05_Modules_opcodes_and_error_messages.md).
