---
doctype: UserGuide
part: "2D processing and analysis"
chapter: Measurements
section: Score_characteristics
module_tag: meas
product: Aurora-Imaging-Library-user-guide
version: 1100
path: "UserGuide / 2D processing and analysis / meas / Score characteristics"
---

# Score characteristics

As previously discussed, a marker is found according to its associated characteristics, which you can set with [`MmeasSetMarker`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetMarker.md) (essential characteristics) and [`MmeasSetScore`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md) (score characteristics). Score characteristics apply only to markers that have all essential characteristics.

Unlike essential characteristics, which are either met or not (causing the marker to be kept or discarded), score characteristics allow you to specify a range of acceptable values; based on where the actual characteristic result falls within that range, Aurora Imaging Library calculates its score. For example, with [`M_EDGE_CONTRAST_SCORE`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md), you can set a range of valid contrast values, from the highest possible contrast to the lowest that you are willing to tolerate; the better (higher) the marker's contrast, the higher its contrast score.

Aurora Imaging Library multiplies the scores of all score characteristics, specified for the marker, to calculate the final score of the marker ([`MmeasGetResult`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasGetResult.md) with [`M_SCORE_TOTAL`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasGetResult.md)). The marker with the highest final score is the one found by [`MmeasFindMarker`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasFindMarker.md). By default, Aurora Imaging Library only calculates the score of the marker's edge strength ([`M_STRENGTH_SCORE`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md)). Therefore, if you do not call [`MmeasSetScore`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md), the marker that has the strongest edges (and all the essential characteristics) is found.

> **Note:** Although you can specify multiple score characteristics, doing so can cause results that are difficult to interpret. It is often sufficient, and simpler, to use one score characteristic with which to find the best marker. Since the marker with the highest (best) strength is found by default, you should therefore typically disable the strength score characteristic before setting another score characteristic.

After calling [`MmeasFindMarker`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasFindMarker.md), you can use [`MmeasGetScore`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasGetScore.md) with [`M_RESULT`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasGetScore.md) to retrieve the characteristic's score, as well as other related information, such as the actual value of the characteristic (for example, the contrast of the marker in the image). You can also use [`MmeasGetResult`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasGetResult.md) to retrieve the actual value of the characteristic (for example, [`M_EDGE_CONTRAST`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasGetResult.md)), regardless of whether you call [`MmeasSetScore`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md). To inquire [`MmeasSetScore`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md) settings, use [`MmeasGetScore`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasGetScore.md) with [`M_MARKER`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasGetScore.md).

## Setting limits

You must use [`MmeasSetScore`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md) with the [`Min`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md), [`Low`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md), [`High`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md), and [`Max`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md) parameters to set the acceptable limits of a score characteristic. These limits represent a type of score function, `_f_(_x_),` where _x_ is the calculated characteristic. If _x_ is less than [`Low`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md) and greater than or equal to [`Min`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md), or greater than [`High`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md) and less than or equal to [`Max`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md), Aurora Imaging Library calculates the characteristic's score `(_f_(_x_))` to be above 0% and below 100%. If _x_ is greater than or equal to [`Low`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md) and less than or equal to [`High`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md), the characteristic is automatically given a score of 100%. Conversely, if _x_ is less than [`Min`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md) or greater than [`Max`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md), the characteristic is automatically given a score of 0% and is discarded.

*[Image: MeasurementSetScore1.png]*

For example, if you are using [`M_EDGE_CONTRAST_SCORE`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md) and set [`Min`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md) to 25 and [`Max`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md) to 225, any contrast value that is below 25 and over 225 will score 0%. If you also set [`Low`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md) to 50 and [`High`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md) to 200, then any contrast between 50 and 200 will score 100%, while contrasts between 25 and 50, or between 200 and 225, will score above 0% and below 100% (`_f_(_x_))`.

You must specify a value for each limit parameter. All limits except [`Min`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md) can be set to [`M_MAX_POSSIBLE_VALUE`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md), which represents a predetermined maximum established by Aurora Imaging Library for that characteristic.

## Using score characteristics

The variety of limits ([`Min`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md), [`Low`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md), [`High`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md), and [`Max`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md)) provide you with great flexibility and control over score characteristics, which affect the marker that is ultimately found. The following examples illustrate how to set these limits to achieve the required results.

- You want to specify one limit that a characteristic must be above; for example, you only want to find edge markers that have a strength that is higher than 20. To do so, use [`M_STRENGTH_SCORE`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md), and set [`Min`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md) and [`Low`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md) to 20, and [`High`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md) and [`Max`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md) to [`M_MAX_POSSIBLE_VALUE`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md). In this case, if the marker's strength (highest edgevalue) is greater than 20, the strength score will be 100%. If it is below 20, the strength score will be 0%.
  *[Image: MeasurementSetScore2a.png]*
- You want to specify one limit that a characteristic must be under; for example, you only want to find edge markers that have a contrast that is below 80. To do so, use [`M_EDGE_CONTRAST_SCORE`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md), and set [`Min`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md) and [`Low`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md) to 0, and [`High`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md) and [`Max`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md) to 80. In this case, if the contrast is less than 80, the contrast score will be 100%. If it is above 80, the contrast score will be 0%.
  *[Image: MeasurementSetScore2b.png]*
- You want to specify two limits that a characteristic must be within; for example, you only want to find stripe markers that have a width between 40 and 60 pixels. To do so, use [`M_STRIPE_WIDTH_SCORE`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md), and set [`Min`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md) and [`Low`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md) to 40, and [`High`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md) and [`Max`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md) to 60. In this case, if a stripe's width is greater than 40 pixels and less that 60 pixels the width score will be 100%. Otherwise, the width score will be 0%.
  *[Image: MeasurementSetScore3a.png]*
- You want to specify two limits that a characteristic should ideally be within, and to allow some tolerance for each limit; for example, you prefer finding stripe markers that have a width between 40 and 60 pixels (if available), but if necessary you also want to accept widths that are closest to those limits by a maximum of 10 pixels. To do so, use [`M_STRIPE_WIDTH_SCORE`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md), and set [`Min`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md) to 30, [`Low`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md) to 40, [`High`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md) to 60, and [`Max`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md) to 70. In this case, if a stripe's width is between 40 and 60 pixels, it will score 100%, while widths between 30 and 40, or between 60 and 70, will score above 0% and below 100%, depending on how close they are to the ideal limit. Widths below 30 and above 70 will score 0%.
  *[Image: MeasurementSetScore3b.png]*
- You want to specify limits that favor characteristics with higher values; for example, you want to find the circle that has the biggest radius. To do so, use [`M_RADIUS_SCORE`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md), and set [`Min`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md) to 0, and [`Low`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md), [`High`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md), and [`Max`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md) to [`M_MAX_POSSIBLE_VALUE`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md).
  *[Image: MeasurementSetScore4a.png]*
- You want to specify limits that favor characteristics with lower values; for example, you want to find the circle that has the smallest radius. To do so, use [`M_RADIUS_SCORE`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md), and set [`Min`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md), [`Low`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md), and [`High`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md)to 0, and [`Max`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md) to [`M_MAX_POSSIBLE_VALUE`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md).
  *[Image: MeasurementSetScore4b.png]*
- You want to specify limits that cause the characteristic to be ignored (a flat mapping); for example, you want to ensure that the marker's edge strength score will not affect the marker that is found. To do so, use [`M_STRENGTH_SCORE`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md) and set [`Min`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md) and [`Low`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md) to 0, and [`High`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md) and [`Max`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md) to [`M_MAX_POSSIBLE_VALUE`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md).
  *[Image: MeasurementSetScore6.png]*
  A score characteristic that has its limits set to the specified flat mapping will always score 100%; therefore, it can never be a criterion by which to select the best marker. That is, since all possible characteristic values (having already been validated by the essential characteristics) always receive a perfect score, there can never be one that is better than another.
  As previously mentioned, this flat mapping is the default behavior of all score characteristics except [`M_STRENGTH_SCORE`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md). Note that since the edge strength limits are set, by default, to find the marker with the highest strength characteristic score (that is, [`Min`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md) set to 0, and [`Low`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md), [`High`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md) and [`Max`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md) set to [`M_MAX_POSSIBLE_VALUE`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md)), it might be useful to sometimes apply a flat mapping to [`M_STRENGTH_SCORE`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md) and ignore the strength, thereby allowing some other characteristic, such as the contrast, to find the best edge.

### Final score

Since Aurora Imaging Library multiplies the score (percentage) of all of the marker's characteristics to establish the marker's final score ([`M_SCORE_TOTAL`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasGetResult.md)), you should keep in mind the following potential effects of this calculation:

- If a characteristic's score is 0%, the marker's final score will also result in 0%, thereby eliminating any possibility of obtaining a result. That is, multiplying any _x_ by 0 always gives 0.
- If a characteristic's score is 100%, the calculation of the marker's final score remains unaffected by that characteristic. That is, multiplying _x_ by 100% always gives _x_. In this case, the score of the other characteristics (if any have been set) will determine the best marker among all possible markers. For example, if characteristic _C_ has a score of 25% and all other characteristics have scores of 100%, then characteristic _C_ determines the final score and whether the marker is found (the final score of such a marker would be 25%).
  If the range between the [`Low`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md) and [`High`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md) limits is too wide, many characteristics can score 100%, making it difficult to ascertain which is better. Therefore, if you are having difficulty distinguishing between markers, you can try narrowing these limits.
- Once a characteristic's score is below 100%, the marker's final score can never be 100%. That is, if an element in a set is imperfect, the set as a whole can never attain perfection.

The following example illustrates how a marker's final score is computed according to the result of the specified score characteristics.

| Marker | Contrast score result | Strength score result | Position score result | Marker's final score |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| A | 70% | 80% | 100% | 56% (0.7 x 0.8 x 1.0) |
| B | 100% | 100% | 20% | 20% (1.0 x 1.0 x 0.2) |
| C | 100% | 100% | 0% | 0% (1.0 x 1.0 x 0.0) |

## Lowest possible score and score-offset

When using multiple score characteristics, you can specify the importance of each, allowing you to affect a characteristic's influence on the marker's final score. To do this, Aurora Imaging Library lets you adjust a characteristic's lowest-possible score, which is 0 by default. For example, by default, if a characteristic scores 5%, and Aurora Imaging Library multiplies it with other characteristics, it will significantly affect the marker's final score (the lower a characteristic's score, the greater its multiplicative effect). However, if you set its lowest possible score to 93%, Aurora Imaging Library remaps that same characteristic's score to 98%; this results in the characteristic's score having less influence on the final score. This allows you to potentially modify results (the marker found) without having to alter other settings.

To change the lowest possible score, use the [`ScoreOffset`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md) parameter and specify a value that Aurora Imaging Library will then offset from a perfect score (100%). That is: `100% - _ScoreOffset_ = _LowestPossibleScore_.` Since the default lowest possible score is 0%, the default score-offset is 100% (calculated as, 100% - 100% = 0%).

Although the score-offset increases the lowest-possible score of a characteristic, it does not alter the range of acceptable characteristic values, as set with the limit parameters ([`Min`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md), [`Low`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md), [`High`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md), and [`Max`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md)). For example, the following image shows two graphs with equivalent limits. However, the first graph has a score-offset of 100% (default), while the second graph has a score-offset of 70%. In each case, the pool of valid characteristic values is the same. The only difference is, in the first graph, the lowest-possible score of a characteristic (less than or equal to [`Min`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md)greater than or equal to [`Max`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md)) is greater than 0, while in the second graph the lowest-possible score of a valid characteristic (between the same ranges) is greater than 30.

*[Image: MeasurementScoreOffset.png]*

As the graphs indicate, the score-offset essentially influences the slope of the characteristic's score function `(_f_(_x_)).` Note that since the angle of the function is slightly different in each graph, Aurora Imaging Library plots the resulting scores for equivalent characteristic values within these ranges somewhat differently. For example, in the first graph, a characteristic value that scores 5% will score approximately 34% in the second graph. However, in either case, any characteristic value that is less than 10 or greater than 90 (that is, below [`Min`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md) or above [`Max`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md)) will score 0%. Note that characteristic values between 40 and 60 ([`Low`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md) and [`High`](../../Reference/meas/MmeasSetScore.md)) will always score 100%.
